

                        Welcome to Strife Pt.1

     Its 1942...Europe is in ruins from the Nazi war machine. They seem to be invincible, 
as nothing seems to stop their advance. Rumo0rs abound as to how the Germans had 
become so powerful. Meanwhile, a German spy captured by an allied listening post 
in North Africa has started to talk a bit. He talks of a hidden base in the French 
Alps, nestled between two peaks and buried in the side of a mountain. He speaks of 
continuous shipments of arms, supplies and treasure. He speaks of a titanic facility 
housing over 800 soldiers and their "servants", a bunch of undead filth. As you read 
over the intel and look at the aerial photos, a sudden chill runs up your neck and 
your hair stands on end....Schabbs!!! It can't be! You killed him in Istanbul more 
than 2 years ago! As you read on, you realize something even more sinister. The rumors 
of Hitler and his minions stealing the Spear of Destiny must be true, for the German 
war machine seems un-stopable. Not even the sheer numbers of the Allies can slow 
them down.....
     Absorbing all of this, you sit down to plan the mission. First, you must find 
your way to France, then on to Castle Streit (Strife)!
     Some time later.....You stand looking at the guard's lifeless body. He had brought 
your meal--You stood aside the door and grabbed him as he entered, choking his scream 
as you plugged him with a well placed 7.65 mm slug from his own gun. Equipped with 
the gun and the knife from his belt, you contemplate how to deal with the two SS 
guards in the next room. And so it begins.....


                       A bit about the game...

Part 1 is 10 levels. There are no secret floors. Each floor has a distict theme and 
purpose.
You will travel through warehouse, bunkers, offices, barricks etc.

Pick up all the ammo you can, and especially first aid, as there isn't a huge amount 
lying around. Each level has at least one extra life available, either in the open, 
or hidden. Some floors also have adrenelin hypos lying around for that extra kick 
during those "stressful" situations.

There a LOTS of secret areas. Some contain treasure, ammo, first aid and even exits. 
It's always a good idea to explore the floor after dusting off the denizens to find 
the secrets.
Beware of ambush points too because you might think you killed'em all....Not all 
secret areas are behind pushwalls. Most of the pushwalls are behind a wall decor 
of some type and some of the exit keys are hidden in secret rooms. 
Some levels also have more than one way out.SAVE OFTEN!!!!

One of the floors houses the castle treasury...it is heavily guarded and well hidden. 
It offers more than 200,000 points!

Well enough of this bibble-babble, go blast some Nazi trash and enjoy the game!
Lock and Load and watch your six!!
Watch for part 2 in the coming weeks!

Lakota Bucksnort, 2010
 
