                         Making a new definitions file.


Tools:   You have the game and VSWAPED and VSMAPED.

The first example: The TC 'Xmaswolf' (shareware). 
        *Start VSMAPED. Load 'GAMEMAPS.WL1'. Load the suggested files:
         'wolfensteinSW.txt', 'wolfenstein.pal', 'VSWAP.WL1' and 'normal.inf'.
         Finished! Unless you want to rename some items.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
The second example is 'Guns and Glory'. More interesting.
         Because very little is normal here it will be somewhat of a challenge.
         Pretend you know nothing about the game.

The palette. 
        *Using VSWAPED will pose no problems, but you will see that most
         items are weirdly colored. This is a sign that the game uses its own
         palette which you must obtain. Follow the instructions in the
         palette tool help file, choose a palette wall and capture the palette.
         Make the entries multiples of 4 (they use to be in wolfenstein)
         and save the palette as fex. 'GunsandGlory.pal'.
         It can be done in 7 minutes. Load your palette and see the difference.

Structures.
        *Start VSMAPED with 'GunsandGlory.pal'. Load suitable starting files,
         fex. 'wolfenstein.txt' and 'normal.inf'. There are floor and ceiling
         structures in the game, so you will be asked to set the ranges.
         It is not at all difficult because ordinary wall images normally
         come in pairs (light and shadow).
         Start 'MISC/edit definition file'. On the first line put in the 3
         numbers 'walls from', 'Structures'+'from' and 'Upto'(the number
         after the last structure). Press 'USE' and 'SAVE FILE' under a
         new name fex. 'GunsandGlory.txt'. So far so good.

Saved games
        *A quick test shows that VSMAPED can't handle saved games of this mod,
         so feel free to delete all saved game entries (lines with '*' as
         character no. 7) in GunsandGlory.txt. I you aren't interested in
         saved games at all, don't worry about them.
         Now to some hard work.

Overview.
        *Click EDIT and lower the panel. You can't do without the entry list. 
         The floor codes look sensible and also the walls, they should indeed
         show up correctly.
         The 3D window confirms that the walls and floors/ceilings are ok but
         the doors look suspicious. From VSWAPED you can see that there must be
         at least 17 kinds of doors. You will take care of that later.
        *The elevators seem to have moved to new locations.
        *The corner cells in a level may have something to do with light,
         shading or weather phenomena. The meaning is unique for each game and 
         I won't discuss it here. You can do some experiments of your own.

         But the object part looks like a total mess!, hands with weapons
         sticking up from the ground! Weirder than expected.
        *In 'normal' mods most of the features are taken care of by the program
         but in this case you can make your life a bit easier if you write
         'new' in the comment of the first line. Then all DEFINED objects
         will be shown as empty squares and you're not confused by
         irrelevant symbols. But you must do some corrections by hand.
        *An object standing on a 'deaf guard' floorcode is probably a guard. 
        *MARK the start positions and go through a few levels. There should be
         one in each so they too have moved.
        *Now get an impression of how many items are used in the game:
         Start MISC/'Statistics for the whole mod', and to see it graphically:
         Get the entry list (Click EDIT and lower the lists part), then
         click the single arrow to the right.
         Items used in the level will be covered with a square, white for
         solids, pink for objects. Those listed in the definitions are large,
         those not listed are small. Go through the levels using the keyboard
         'down' arrow. At end you see all the items used in the game.
         Quite a lot, isn't it? But don't panick.

Totals: *The maximum totals of static objects, actors and doors in each level
         are important, if one or more is exceeded, the game will surely crash.
         For most mods the limits are 399, 149 and  64, respectively.
         In this game I know they are 999, 499 and 512. Were it always so...

The mystery box.
        *On each level you see a rectangular box containing unidentified items.
         It seems to be some sort of copyright stamp. It is not important
         for the performance of the game, and is safely ignored.
             
Start positions.
        *As said, only one start position to each level. Looking at statistics
         you see that the positions 1-4(257-260) is just such a group of 4.
         Get the entry list, choose an item here, write 'Start position' in the
         definitions and choose a symbol. Click 'USE'. As a bonus, the item
         5(261) is often neighbor to a wall that looks like a staircase, and
         there is mostly just one, so probably it is an end-of-level trigger.
         Delete the old start positions. Finally, save the file.

Recording.
         You are now in position to record any item.
         I shall give just a few examples, leaving the rest to you.
         Normally VSMAPED knows which items are objects and which are actors,
         but being a 'not normal' mod it is handled otherwise here:
        *1. All items with an image are considered static objects except:
         2. items with 1 or 2 neighbors with identical names are actors.
            Identical means: no direction qualifiers like 'E' in the name.
            Then the guards will look in the right direction in the 3D window,
            and the statistics will be less bulky. 
         3. Some isolated actors must be pointed out by adding 50 or 88 to the
            name. Hard actors (torches fex.) will be preceded by 59 (50+9).

        *The walls 1 or 2 look conspiciously like an elevator. Put one of each
         near the start on level 1, save the maps (with backup), and start
         the game. Yes! Wall 1 IS an elevator, wall 2 is just a 'fake' one.
         Exit the game. Back in VSMAPED, RESTORE the game to normal but keep
         the backup. Start 'edit definitions'. Choose wall 1 and write
         'Elevator' and choose the elevator symbol. Press 'USE'. Do the same
         for the fake elevator. Delete the old elevators. Wall no. 5 appears
         always close to an elevator and looks like an 'elevator rail' wall.
         Write this for wall no. 5 and choose a fitting symbol: no. 1038.
         You can go through all the items, see what they look like or what
         happens when you walk into them. It can be quite funny.

        *For example, choose no. 320 (sprite 64) and put one near start, Save.
         DON'T OVERWRITE THE BACKUP! Start the game. It looks like Baby Hans
         in a gokart. He is not aggressive but if you kill him he disappears,
         leaving a blue key. If you can't recall him, make a screen image.
         Back, write 'HansKart, blue key' and choose a symbol fex. the grey
         pacman. Now look for him in the image list. After some searching you
         find him as sprite no. 1576. Click it. As he leaves a key he should
         be classified as 'key' (4), but being an actor also, write the number
         54 (50+4) ahead of his name and USE the information.
         Fine, he shows up when you move the mouse over him. RESTORE the game.
         What's more: in level 28, 'Wolfenkart' you see our friend and his 7
         siblings lined up for a race. Get the other ones, they are like him. 
         !!!Save definitions regularly!!!

        *Invisible objects are not so obvious. You do have the start positions
         but there are also turning points, secret doors and various triggers.
         It will take some guesswork. There are fex. the hands from below, and
         if you pick one and insert it in the map, nothing is seen in the game.
         As it is outdoors it can hardly be a secret door but if your guess is
         'turning point' you may be right. It will do no harm to try this
         possibility. MARK the suspects. Good, they make a group of 8 items,
         no. 286-293. Now, using some qualified guesses, you can attach
         directions to them all, and it works! For good measure, delete the old
         turning points. Secret doors are almost always inside a wall.
         All other immaterial objects I call 'triggers' to be examined later.

        *A guard may be unfriendly and I suggest you build a cage for him
         out of hard objects and have plenty of weapons and power-ups
         close at hand. Get a picture and find him in the image list.
         Superguards like Hans fex. are easy, They are unique and have one
         single image. The same goes for pacmen and ghosts. An ordinary guard
         is shown as: standing/running(2), skill 1,3,4(3) of a group facing 
         E,N,W and S(4), making 24 entries. Dogs have just 12 entries because
         they always run. After having identified the guard look for pictures
         6,4,2,0 for standing, 14,12,10,8 for running, from the start of his
         images. Skill doesn't matter for the images. When you are assigning
         skill to the entries, take your time and use the game.

        *In this way proceed with identifying the remaining entries, find
         the keys and their corresponding doors, find teleports and triggers.
         To discover the nature of an item, fill level 1 with it, start the
         game, and note the error message of 'too many...(objects or actors)'.

Doors.
        *Put a collection of doors near the starting point. Run the game and
         record the appearence of the doors.  Now to more work:
         start MISC/Edit definitions. Click a door.
        *three numbers appear: 'Frame', 'Door' and 'Door 2'. Choose 'Door'
         and click the image that will be used for a vertical/horizontal door.
         Do the same for 'Frame'. It is always the first of a pair here.
        *For one-way doors (Blake Stone), choose the other side also (Door 2).
         Click USE. Do this for all doors and save the definitions.
         Don't click 'All'. Then all doorframes would get the selected image.

Classes file.
        *When you search for objects in the map, it may be convenient with more
         categories, so you start 'Edit Classes File' and extend the file with:
         'Scientist', 'Fanatic', 'Fake Hitler', 'Panzer', 'Sniper', and
         whatever you may want, fex. 12 teleport (Remember: AFTER 'Elevator'!).
         Put '12' ahead of any 'Teleport'/'Teledest' entry in the definition
         text. Save the classes file as 'GunsandGlory.inf'.

Saved games.
        *If you want to work with saved games in some mod, You should follow
         the procedures above, only insert items, run the game, and obtain a
         saved game from which you identify entries, and record them in lines
         with '*' as character no. 7.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Third example: Corridor 7 Alien Invasion (Play Now version).

         Suppose a friend gets a copy of the old game and asks you to make a
         definition file for VSMAPED. You agree. Full of self-confidence you
         start VSMAPED with your copy of the game. You will get a message:
         'No mapheadfile. Do not worry'. This game doesn't use a mapheadfile,
         and don't save it together with the gamemaps when you are asked.
         As default you use the files for Wolfenstein v1.0, expecting
         an easy task.

        *Gfxtiles instead of VSWAP, well..OK. Eventually the first level shows.
         WHAT THE **@**!? IS THIS MESS??? The level seems all covered with
         objects. A statistics reveals that there are 3865 of object no. 18 in
         this level. it can hardly be normal objects and remembering Vincent's
         manual (which of course you have read) you start definition editing
         and assign the 'invisible' symbol no. 256 to no.18. USE. It works.

        *Now what's happened to the floors??? The 3D window works poorly.
         There are however some unlisted areas fex. '90' that could be
         a floor. I isn't now but you can MAKE it a floor by assigning it
         a symbol in the range 106 to 143, fex. no. 112. And call it fex.
         'Floor 90'. The 3D window confirms that it works.
         Do the same thing for the other suspicious areas, excellent!

        *Now to enjoy the surroundings. Alas, the colors are awful, you
         must get the game palette! Start VSWAPED/palette tool and obtain the
         palette as usual. It certainly improves the looks!

        *Never satisfied? The objects seem sensible, but the walls are rubbish!
         What's going on? An inspection of the list of walls shows that there
         are no wall pairs (light and dark). Now what? The manual says that if
         you write 'single' in the comment of line 0, only one image to each
         wall will be expected. You do that, save definitions, close and reopen
         VSMAPED. Nice.

        *What's that? Level 2's floors are covered with a structure. They
         shouldn't be. Choose MISC/ignore..., then it will disappear from
         the 3D view.

        *On level 3, some guards are standing on solid no.138. Name it
         'Floor ambush' and give it the symbol no.106 (X). It works fine.

        *It is fairly easy to see where doors should be, so write 'Door FC'
         fex. and use a non-directional door symbol. Continue with this.
         Marking the usual 'doors' shows that they are never used as doors.
         Bearing in mind that Doors are searched by the name, delete
         the old doors from the definitions.

         You can just as well delete some old floor entries and elevators. 

        *Some unlisted walls (characterized by a hex number) are now seen.
         Give them names but leave the image# as 'auto' (0). The symbol#
         should be set to 256, invisible, to suppress the old symbol.

        *So far so good, regarding the walls and floors. Now to the objects.

         Start-positions and turning-points are unchanged, good!

        *It appears that the entry numbers of the first 89 objects are simply
         the object numbers, like in wolfenstein. Piece of cake!
         Just give them new names and symbols.

        *For temporarily ignoring false symbols, you can put 'new' in line 0's
         comment as before.
 
        *As for the actors, imsert specimens in level 1 close to start and
         proceed like for Guns and Glory.

        *You are lucky with the door frames. Only one type is used, and by
         fortune it is the default type, so you don't have to write anything.

         There are no sounds in the gfxtiles file, but VSWAPED can handle it.
         If you want to use definitions here, you must put 'single' into the
         comment in the first line (like for VSMAPED).

         ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Operation Bodycount has yet more peculiarities:
        *The floorcodes are used for choosing structures for floors and
         ceilings, and these are not the same for basement and buildings!
        *Furthermore, you can turn the light on or off with switches,
         so you must have at least 2 separate definition files for the game,
         and 2 palettes (bright and dark) if you want to trust the 3D image.
         Therefore the program now has buttons for loading a new
         definition file, a new palette, and a new classes file.
        *The game is treated as Operation Bodycount if it has at least one
         floorcode with an image number attached.
        *The 3D window had to be reworked, for ambush floors and transparent
         blocks get their floor/ceiling structures from nearby floor tiles.
        *Doors have individual floor/ceiling structures, already taken care of
         by the program.
        *In buildings the structures are lined with metal strips,this I haven't
         implemented, There MUST be a limit. Else it's a fairly good 3D window.

         ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Blake Stone:Planet strike is quite good. If you want to make your own levels,
         the game has some quirks of its own.
      Border objects: All level borders except the right contain some
         high-number objects. I must admit that I have no idea of the purpose,
         but apparently the game works just as fine if they are removed.

      ***Most controls are done by special floors or solids. Here is a list:***
      Floor 6C acts as a barrier to all actors (but not to you),
         they can attack you from distance however.
      Teleporter (wall ID=32): Walk close to it and use space. Then you are
         displaced to a location given by the object next to the right that is
         (x=object# /256,y=object# mod 256). The teleporter itself is topped by
         the number 62720 (=245*256).
      Activate guard (wall ID=158): Activates a guard standing on the location
         given by the object on 158 like for the teleporter.
      Switch (wall ID=45 for opening, 57 for closing a barrier).
         The switch can be operated directly, toggling a barrier open/closed.
         An 'opens' switch must activate a 'closed' barrier and visa versa.
         The object on top gives the location of the outerermost
         target element. A post or spike barrier without connection to a switch
         will oscillate between open and closed, the others will be closed.
      Switch trigger (Floor 9F for opens, A0 for closes): Walking over it
         activates a switch as above, but only once. The object on top gives
         the switch's location. The floor kind must match the switch kind.
      Locked doors: No doors are locked initially, but a key placed on the door
         makes it locked, it opens only with the same key (red,blue,yellow).
      Other games: 
        *Blake Stone-Aliens of gold and the shareware game have about the same
         features mentioned above except post barriers. These games
         can be edited but only the full game can be run afterwards.
        *Unique to Planet Strike is Guard with a function:
        (You must give walls 72-80 floorcode numbers and name them as follows):
         The guard is placed on a solid with ID in this range with the effects
         78 or 80: the guard is next to invisible.
         72-78: the guard drops an item when killed:
         72: Red key, 73: Yellow key, 74: Blue key, 75: Anti-plasma cannon,
         76: Dual neutron disrupter, 77: Detonator, 78: Energy pack.
         79: Activates a guard/Barrier at the location given by the object
             next right. The barrier target is the outermost item in a row.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     Good Luck
                                      Vincent

