7-28-2004                                             A TIME TO DIE
                                                      by Lakota Bucksnort


     I hope you enjoy this set. This effort has taken me seven months to complete. 
I started this when my grandson, Bobby left for Germany on Jan. 4,2004. I figured 
it would give me something to do while he was gone. I never dreamed it would take 
me this long to do a gameset as my late husband, John could crank one out in 3 or 
4 weeks easy. After months of studying his and Bobby,s work, I think that I have 
the general idea...LOL My ladyfriends think I'm nuts, as do my other 23 grandchildren, 
only Bobby thinks its a good thing....After all, I AM A BUCKSNORT!!!!  My arthritis 
is bad in my hands now, so I can't knit anything anymore, but I can still use a mouse 
and a keyboard with the best of'em! At my age, (I'll be 80 in November) This game 
has done for me what it did for John in recapturing a bit of of youth that I thought 
was gone. I emailed a copy of this set to Bobby and he wrote back in his jovial tone 
saying"Grandma, you are sadistic". I think you will enjoy this set, It is done in 
the true Bucksnort style: Lots of shooting, running, shooting some more, and a bagload 
of tricks from John's sets as well. Enjoy it while I start another one...No cheating 
now....lol  The storyline to this set is the storyline to most Wolf and Spear sets- 
Your a prisoner in a nasty damp Nazi-ridden castle. So escape, will ya?
                                                      LONG LIVE THE SPEAR!

                                                                                 
 Sincerely,
                                                                          Lakota 
Bucksnort
                                                                          john_bucksnort@yahoo.com

                                                                          CEO(virtual\emeritus)

                                                                           The Mutant 
Co. LTD.