* * * Wolfenstein 3-D: The Deluxe Edition v0.6 * * *

This is "Tricob" from Diehard Wolfers.  My plan is for the source code of this game 
to be ported to WolfSDL.  Therefore the DOS EXE isn't of much use to me anymore. 
 So here is the DOS version for those of you who haven't seen it yet.

Version 0.7 - Slightly increased player speed.  Replaced overly Halloween-themed 
sprites with tree images.  Also updated weapon images in VSWAP.  The knife and pistol 
images are corrected.  New treasure sprites now look closer to the final versions, 
and some sounds are updated.

This version isn't complete, but it's a nice little taste of a hi-res Wolf3D experience. 
 It should even run the original 60 levels of Wolf3D without any modification.  Now 
*that's* true downward compatibility!  :-)

Here's the status of the mod's features in this ZIP file:

8 new treasure sprites - 3 out of 8 are graphically done, but all are fully functional. 
 The pack of cigarettes will not be in the final version, thank goodness.
Hint bubbles - They display, but are non-functional.
Ammo crates - These function similar to Dugtrio17's Treasure Chest concept.  They'll 
work differently in the final version.
Tables with items - 100% complete.  Press the Spacebar when you're against a table 
to pick up what's on top of it.
New treasure sounds - Complete, though I might add more later.
Hi-res Static Objects - About 90% complete.
New Static Objects - Graphically, these are all complete, but more may be added later.

Wall textures - About 50% complete.  Check out the hi-res version of the grey brick 
Hitler poster!  :-D
Standard enemies (SS, Mutant, etc.) - 99% complete.  They're just enlarged 64x64 
duplicates of the original.  Guards and SS need the purple re-colored to grey shades.

Bosses and other enemies - Not even *close* to done.  Contrast is way too high on 
most, due to a dramatic palette change in the EXE.
Sign-on screen - Far from complete.  It still shows up, but trust me when I say this 
screen is an eyesore.
New title screen - 99% complete.  Still needs additional letters to add to the title 
("Deluxe Edition").  It's ripped from the SNES version of Wolf3D, BTW.
New music - Some of them are placed in the AUDIO files, but none are used in the 
EXE.
Animated objects - Enabled.
Directional sprites - Enabled.
Additional enemies - Not done.
Read This! text - Not updated.

If I'm not mistaken, all shareware levels run the way they should, aside from the 
purple walls, which - again - are enlarged 64x64 duplicates of the original.

All additional objects used in the EXE are on spots 1-18 and 75-89 of the Objects 
List.  Keep this in mind if you choose to use this mod for your own purposes.

E1L1 in this mod features the seven treasure sprites I did, the "tables with items" 
objects, and a few new textures.

Enjoy your Wolf levels in hi-res!  :-)

- "Tricob".