Prepare yourself for an all out assault on your Wolf3d skills.
 
===Finished July 2002===
This is it.... CREATOR RELEASE
OPERATION : SCORPION ][ : THE LEGACY
Tornado's next big thing.
 
Upon destroying the 6 towers and being returned to America, you are a hero. After 
spending almost a year in retirement, you are called back into duty. The war is not 
over. At the briefing you learn that all of the high ranking officials in the castle 
were only supercoded mutant clones. Yet again you must be called into action. The 
new target you will enter is a small bunker outside a village in Germany. Your ultimate 
goal is to infiltrate the mutant creation center and kill the real Nazi council.

EPISODE ONE: Critical Entry
EPISODE TWO: The Chemical Rush
EPISODE THREE: Surrender Or Die
EPISODE FOUR: Buried In Dead
EPISODE FIVE: Calm Before A Storm
EPISODE SIX: Dead After Midnight
 
Well, this took A LOT of time. I hope you like it. A computer crash wiped out the 
game when I had a full episode on the map. THAT is why it took so freaking long to 
do.
Note: These maps are hard. Very hard. As a matter of fact, I've scored these a Level 
3 recommended difficulty maximum. If you beat this on L3, you are my equal in skill.

Quotes:
"Oh man! This is so difficult it's obscene!"
"Ow, my finger!"
"Oops. The CTRL button is broke."
"Ammo, ammo, need some ammo now!"
-60 maps
-Cool new graphics
-Touched up some crap graphics
-New gfx from Nazi Alert, Beyond Tobruk, Dark Dungeon, and original ones courtesy 
and genius of me.
(Heh, the status bar looks like someone took a big bite out of it)
 
If you object to the violent content of this game, then take your freakin' finger 
off the fire button and delete the game. Seriously, if you're going to Wolf3d sites 
and yet the violence of Wolf3d offends you, you must be the biggest hypocrite in 
history. However, this game should not be played by children under 13 without parental 
consent. Just because of the violence that (supposedly) makes video games the worst 
form of media with no first amendment protection because they are not considered 
art! (note: this is the actual opinion of those retarded senators, never ever would 
it be mine) Now remember this; just keep an open mind. The WW2 imagery is offensive 
to some but it's just a game. A great game for its age.
This game was made with the following:
FloEdit (new bar and other special graphics)
MapEdit (new maps, OBVIOUSLY!)
Creator (PLEASE forgive me, I had to get this done faster than OS1)
WolfEdit (various gfx touchup and importing)
Thanks to all of the designers of these items!
(Hint: Upon hearing I look somewhat like Hans I decided to really make him look like 
me.)
What I played To Keep From Going Insane:
The Six Depths Of Terrorism
Project Totengraeber Phase II
The Final Solution
Wolf Collection
Haunted House Demo
Wolfendoom
Spear Resurrection
Project Weltuntergang
Blood
Duke 3D
Doom 2 and lots of TC's
FEEDBACK IS NEEDED BY THE LEGIONS!
EMAIL TORNADO!
tornado198883990@aol.com
GAME CREATORS' CREED:
If it's good, tell me. If it sucks, tell me WHY.
Wow. This took nearly A YEAR. That's a lot of time. I really hope you had fun playing 
this. That would make all my hard work worthwhile.
 
WHAT'S NEXT?
"First Degree" - A Wolf3d TC in the style of Postal or State Of Emergency in that 
you're an insane cop and you cause mayhem to everyone. Featuring city locations like 
restaurants, banks, hospitals, homes, etc. Each map is a small town (huge map though). 
You'll need a “key” of some kind (briefcase, secret papers, money). Health restored 
by : Food, Syringes, and Medikits. Will have no new sound as FloEdit hates me. Will 
not allow me to edit sound anymore. Either way I'll need people to help with sound, 
gfx, maps, testing, etc. E-MAIL ME!
