Story and Gameplay Guide:

Story:
	After failing many times to defeat Crash Bandicoot, drunken and furious Cortex plots 
his next evil plan! Cortex upset at so many defeats decides he wants Nina to defeat 
Crash for him in a friendly brawl which will turn out to be a battle to the death! 
But Cortex's Master, Uka Uka has other plans to rid the world of that Bandicoot and 
instead calls upon Cortex to back off his plan, and instead at night, capture Crunch 
Bandicoot from Crash's Home and Reactivate his control bracelet on his left arm.

	Cortex agrees and makes Crunch into is evil servant once more. With Crunch gone 
and Coco at some science thing with Brio (who has recently turned good again, just 
so he can makeshift that he has a girlfriend who's anthropamorhic even though N. 
Tropy disliked this and went on to tell N. Trance who Hypnotized N. Oxide to believe 
he's Rilla Roo, while Rilla Roo is sitting on the beach with Kong drinking Alcohol 
and singing songs about dirt... errr. anyways) Crash must now find his buddy and 
stop Cortex's next eveil plan to take over the World.
	On his way Crash somehow upset Papu papu and his tribe, and now hidding in a forest, 
Crash must find a warp pad to escape, but it is located deep within the forest. Can 
You escape to the Warp Room and begin your mission Crash?
Gameplay:
Welcome to an explanation of the gameplay seen in Crash Bandicoot 2 ( a modification 
for Spear of destiny Created by ID Software back in 1992 about 4 years before Crash 
Bandicoot 1 was released)
CONTROLS:
1: equips the Karate chop as your weapon, this is your LAST RESORT weapin, and should 
never be used against bosses, Arabian Monkies, and Guard Plants.
2: equips the Wumpa Fruit as your weapon, This is a better choice when fighting enemies, 
it is only useless against bosses.
3: if you have picked up one, you use the Slingshot when you press the 3 key. Slingshots 
can take out guards quickly with their rapid fire capabilities, and they are great 
for clearing rooms of enemies too.
4: This lets you use the Wumpa Gun if you have picked it up, this weapin should be 
saved only for bosses and rooms of guards due to it's tendancy to eat up precious 
ammo.
The other controls you can costomize, so there is no need to list them here.
HEALTH AND AMMO:
Health replenises your health and allows you to survive through your journey while 
ammo helps you fight the enemies on your journey, use both sparingly!
Aku Aku heads:

Brown: gives 5% health to a maximum of 200% health
Grey: gives 10% health to a mximum of 200% health
Yellow: Gives 25% health to the maximum of 200%

Wumpa Fruit:

Wumpa Fruit: gives 10 rounds of wumpa power to any weapon other than the karate chop.

Wumpa Crate: gives 25 rounds of wumpa power to any weapin besides the karate chop.

Slingshot: gives 6 wumpa and gives you the sligshot, a fast fireing weapon used for 
clearing rooms.
Wumpa Gun: gives 6 ammo, and can be used to defeat bosse or clear rooms in a hurry!


TREASURE ITEMS:
These are items you can pick up to gain score points
Crate: Worth 100 points
? Crate: Worth 500 points
Bounce Crate: Worth 1000 points
Slot Crate: Worth 5000 points

INTERACTIVE OBJECTS:
on your journey you will run into many objects, but some are more special than others.

TNT Crate: can be shot to cause an explosion harming ANYTHING around it including 
you, so stand back when you shoot it.
Nitro Crate: can't be effected by wumpa fruit, but can go off if you run over it. 
It cannot harm guards du to the recent high level Nitro safety training Cortex gave 
them.
Old Column: these columns are less sturdy than others and can be destroyed by attacking 
them with and weapon, but to conserve ammo, use the karate chop. They cause no damage 
when destroyed.
Warp Pad: these can be used to either take you to the level or to the Warp Room, 
eithet way, only you can use them, and Guards are completely un aware of their usefulness.

Exclamation Box: This Crate when walked over will destroy Cortex's New Space station, 
and you must gather the Crystals quickly after activating it or there will be no 
hope for you to escape.
Crystal: Can be used to open Warp Room doors ,and is required ot leave the level.

Gem: Usually not requird, it can open Death Routes to allow access to treasures and 
secret levels.

ENEMIES AND BOSSES:
During your journey you will run into many guards and bosses, here is what to shoot 
with you Wumpa Gun Crash!
        
     1	        2          3           4           5          6           7       
    8
1: Arabian Monkey,	Fast and dangerous, Sligshot is a must against these guys.
2: Brush Droid,		Sneaky and persistant, wumpa fruit is an acceptable weapon here.

3: Eel,				Eels, are fast but easy to defeat the only recommended karate chop.
4: 2 Headed Giant,		The Wumpa Gun is easily a good idea in this case.
5: Mixer Assistant,		Any weapon will suit as long as it is rapidly used against him.

6: Mummy,			Run or fight with the wumpa fruit throw, either way, these are easy.

7: Guard Plant,		They guard, and there fore can't move, these are easy targets
8: Tribesmen,		nothing different from before, simply any weapon will do.

      
      1           2           3          4          5           6
1: Crunch,		Fast but easy to outsmart, using the slingshot won't be a bad idea.
2: Tiny,		Strong but not smart, dodge them fire is a strategy that works.
3: Nina,		Strong, and a bit smart, using hide tactics works during this fight.
4: N. Gin,		Dodge and shoot for first form, Takes cover and shoot for second form.

5: N. Cortex,		Taking Cover is a good idea with those 4 beakers he likes to shoot 
at you.
6: Unknown Boss,	Uses two seperate attacks seperately, hide or take cover for each 
one.

Crunch: Under Cortex's Control, he can simply be turned to normal by destroying the 
control bracelet on his arm.
Tiny: Completely loyal to Cortex, Tiny was sent to search for the crystals on Island 
2, and now must be stopped in the Island's ruins.
Nina: Her Uncle wants to see here shine as bad as he did when he was young, and now's 
her chance, she was sent to find the crystals in the Compound of Island 3.
N. Gin: He want's to make his Master Proud of him with finding the crystals hidden 
in the space station, and he has brough back one of his old mechs to make sure he 
does.
Cortex: Wanting to take over the World, and demented, he is hidding in the Future 
while his servants find all 20 crystals for him. He will not be an easy opponent 
Crash.
Unknown: Cortex brought someone along to make sure that if he failed, that this person 
or thing (whichever you'd like to call it) could ensure the victory of Cortex's evil 
plan!

Other:

If you have trouble with the game, pres these buttons at the same time: NEO you will 
get a nice booster in exchange for all of your score!
If you Press: GIN, you'll get a lovely message from Cortex.

The Cheat codes have been activated and can be used at any time, so there is no need 
to worry, but cheating isn't right, and you want to beat my impossibly wacked high 
score, don't you?

PS. I;m not telling the codes, but lets just say pressing the "Tab" key with something 
else might help.
