Munchkinstein

If recent rumors are true. Hitler has sunk to a new low. Allied intelligence reports claim that the Nazi leader has commissioned the evil Dr. Schabbs to create an army of uberkinder -- superchildren -- and plans to unleash these young mutations upon an unsuspecting Europe. Robbed of their innocence, hundreds of orphaned German children have been taken to a fortified castle high in the Bavarian Alps to be indoctrinated, trained, and genetically altered. Your mission is to infiltrate this castle, investigate, and put a stop to this fiendish project before its results can ever see the light of day.

Legal disclaimer. Munchkinstein does not, in any way, condone, sanction, promote, or advocate the wanton slaughter of little children.

ENEMIES

Puppy
These tiny canines have small, razor-sharp teeth and pack quite a bite.

Guard
One of these pipsqueaks is no problem at all, but a roomful of them means trouble.

S.S.
Just like their adult counterparts, these little brats tote machine guns and wear bullet-proof vests.

Officer
Smart and arrogant. these guys move so fast you can barely aim at them

Zombie
Brought back to life by the evil Dr. Schabbs. these guys have three arms, two knives, and one very accurate gun.

Hansel
This Christmas, he asked Santa to give him two chainguns. Guess what? He got his wish.

Heinrich
His parents wanted him to be a composer, but Uncle Adolf had other plans.

Heidi
Don't let the pigtails fool you. this little girl is as mean and tough as the boys.

Wolfgang
This chubby little fella used to get teased a lot at school. Nobody teases him anymore.

Otto
Before his recruitment, he was an expert with a slingshot. Now, he's just as good with a rocket launcher.

Gretel
The leader of Hitler's uberkinder. Hansel's older sister got her Christmas wish too.

WEAPONS & AMMO

MACHINE GUN
Fast and automatic, this is no pop-gun. Standard sidearm of the S.S.

CHAINGUN
Smaller version of what the bosses carry. Don't overuse it. or you'll run out of ammo very fast.

FLAMETHROWER

ROCKET LAUNCHER

AMMO CLIP
Contains 5 rounds for the pistol, machine gun and chaingun.

AMMO BOX
Contains 25 rounds for the pistol, machine gun and chaingun.

GAS CAN
Refills the flame thrower. Good for 14 shots.

ROCKET CRATE
Contains 5 rockets for the rocket launcher.

BACKPACK
Increases the amount of ammo you can carry. Also contains 20 bullets, 4 shots for the flame thrower, and 5 rockets.

OTHER ITEMS

PUPPY FOOD
Gives a 4% boost to your health.

(UNKNOWN)
It might be the remains of some poor victim, but who knows? Whatever it is. it gives a 10% boost to your health.

FIRST AID KIT
Gives a 25% boost to your health.

ONE-UP
Restores your health to 100% and gives you an extra life.

KEYS
Some areas throughout the castle are locked. These keys will open all locked doors.

ALIEN ARTIFACT
Strange and valuable crystals collected by the Nazis on their conquests. Picking up 50 of them in any one level will give you a free life.
