Here are 21 brand new levels for Spear of Destiny. If you have a death wish challenge 
this maps on the hardest level. 
everything that you least expect is here,so good luck. 


You thought that once you had possession of the spear you could not be defeated in 
combat.
You are now in the allied hospital having your wounds taken care of. Suddenly the 
lights go out.
You hear gunfire from within the halls of the hospital. Then you hear the yelling 
of commands in 
German followed by gunfire and the sound of people being killed. You fearing for 
your life take a dash for the window
when you realize that if you jump out the window it would mean certain death since 
you were on the third floor. Suddenly
the door which leads into your room is kicked open. You reach out to the table which 
is next to your bed and grabbed your gun.
"Schutzstaffel!" Yells the guard. With one shot from your gun you dispatched the 
guard. Other guards are alerted to the gunfire
and start to look for the source of the sound. Knowing this you overturn your bed 
and pushed it behind the back of the door.
You swing the windows open and looked down. You see the nazis carrying out the spear 
from the hospital and putting it in the back of one of the trucks.
Despite your weakened condition you jump out of the window and landed on the back 
of one of the trucks. The truck that you landed on slowly started to move.
You quickly enter the inside of the back of the truck. You stood hidden for at least 
an hour. You were about to jump out the back of the truck
when you feel the truck slowly begin to stop. So you remained hidden a little longer. 
You slowly get out of the back of the truck.
You see one lone guard and think to yourself that if the nazis have possession of 
the spear once again, it must be within this castle above. 
You slowly pull out your knife and killed the guard, and took his pistol. You slowly 
entered the back of the castle hoping and praying that you will be successful once 
again.




I wish to thank all the people that made and helped make Spear of Destiny.
If it wasn't for them you would not be able to play my new levels.



If you enjoyed playing the levels, please contact me at 
                                                          Prints@ccny.com
                                                                Or
                                                          82 South Main St.
                                                          Dolgeville N.Y. 13329

P.S. More levels on the way. By the way name is Ken O'Brien.   