This is a conversion of Halten Sie! by Laz Rojas to ECWolf,  This is a pretty simple
straightforward copy and paste conversion, with the exception of map 2, which I mapped
out from the original MacWolf scenario (it was also in the WolfenDoom addon.  It was
scrapped from this version due to only 10 levels being in an episode, and most likely
because it was the least detailed level)I didn't do any decorate or
anything like that, so Gretel and Fatface's sprites have simply been changed to Trans and
the Death Knight.  As such, this mod is incompatible with any sprite enhancement or 
replacement packs.  I will make a hi-res version soon, using the MacWolf wall and sprite
pack that I released, as well as the sprite enhancement pack as a base.  If anyone wants
to tweak this for any of their own projects, feel free.  

ORIGINAL TXT FILE:

Title: Halten Sie!
Author: Laz Rojas
Email Address: filmman@earthlink.net; wolfdoom@aol.com
Web sites: http://www.geocities.com/TimesSquare/3744/
http://www.doomworld.com/wolfendoom
Description: 10 levels for Wolf 3D, replacing the first episode

Story: Things were going good for the Allies. Paris had been liberated, the Nazis were in retreat all across Europe, and the end of the war seemed finally in sight.

You and two buddies were selected to sneak behind enemy lines on a secret reconnaissance mission to prepare the way for the final push into Germany. Penetrating enemy territory, you expected to find the Nazis demoralized and in disarray... but instead, you found them gearing up for a brand new major offensive that could catch the Allies completely offguard and totally turn the tables. Even worse, you and your buddies were captured before you could report back what was going on.

That was two months ago, and you've spent the past two months buried deep within the bowels of a heavily guarded Nazi prison. Your two buddies are already dead, preferring to die at the hands of vicious Nazi interrogators than tell them what they want to know. Now it's your turn, and you know that for the sake of the unsuspecting Allies, you must live long enough to escape and warn them of the impending Nazi attack. It's all up to you. So when they come to your cell to get you, you waste no time. Before anyone knows what's happening, there's one dead Nazi guard on the cold floor beside you, and his gun is in your hand. But no sooner do you step out into the corridor than you hear a shout of "Halten Sie!"... and you realize without a doubt that the fate of the free world depends on what you do next.

Installation: Rename your gamemaps.wl6, maphead.wl6, vswap.wl6, vgagraph.wl6 and vgahead.wl6 files, then put the files in this archive into your Wolf 3D directory.

If you have any problems with the included vgagraph and vgahead files, just use the originals that come with Wolf3D. All the new ones do is replace the title screen.
