About The Oswiecim Operation   

The Oswiecim Operation is distributed by WolfAddict software. Special thanks goes to Laz Rojas (graphic support and advice), Mark (playtesting and advice), my Wife (toleration and moral support), and Jan Patters (PC advice)

Jon Wigand 
wizbang@ccp.com   

The Oswiecim Operation - Jon Wigand - 3rd Encounter

This is an extraordinary scenario. It is by far one of the most atmospheric Wolfenstein scenarios that I have ever played. What makes it truly great is the brilliant transition between the two floors. The levels on the first floor are largely conventional. The graphics are essentially the same as the original Wolfenstein graphics with some graphics ported from the PC engine. The level design is pretty much conventional, with a few surprises every now and again. Just wait until you move to floor two. I won't give it away, but the transition from the conventional nature of floor one is quite shocking and very in keeping with what Jon had in mind. This is the greatest transition I have ever seen in a Wolfenstein game. Needless to say, the graphics on the second floor are excellent and very evocative. The level design on the second floor is brilliant. Levels twist back on themselves and are confusing and claustrophobic, yet interspersed with beautiful arenas. There is one particularly mean trick with elevators in the second floor which adds to the already excellent mood. Watch out for it! Enemy placement is great, particularly in floor two. The secrets are inspired, and a real model for good secret design in Wolfenstein scenarios. Note the secret nods to floor two in floor one.

As a note to cautious players, be warned that this scenario makes some light use of satanic imagery and mild horror with slightly bloody wall graphics.

In short, this is a fantastic scenario, essential for any Wolfenstein player. It is easily of the same high standard as Laz RojasŐs scenarios.

I would heartily recommend installing the sounds that come with this scenario. For instructions on how to do this, read the text file 'Snds Docs' in the same folder as this readme.

If you have any queries, suggestions or comments, please do not hesitate to write to me at:

Nebogipfel@hotmail.com

As an academic, I may take a little while to respond during standard academic terms. Please be patient - I always wish to respond to any Wolfenstein related correspondence, but it may take a little time.

Please note that all other e-mail addresses as supplied with the original documentation for this scenario are no longer functional. Also note that this is the complete version of the scenario, and therefore you need supply no payment to Jon Wigand for any further levels or scenario sets. If you have any questions about this scenario, or about Jon Wigand and his company, or indeed about WolfAddict's demise, please do not hesitate to write to me at the above address. Thank you!

This scenario was released following on from my correspondence with Jon Wigand, who stated that he wished to release his commercial scenarios in full.  

Graphics, Layout and Design
Jon Wigand

Playtester
Mark of MRP@dental.utmem.edu

After completing your raid on the top secret sub-pen and eliminating the Sea Wolf you found a document in Hitler's(?) quarters containing the location of a heretofore unknown concentration camp in southeast Poland. It appears to consist of 30 forced labor camps in the low lying area just outside of a little industrial center called Oswiecim.

With a lot of luck and the help of a railway car you manage to catch a ride through the front lines and into the countryside just south of the little town. The smell of death permeates the air for miles around the concentration camp.  Your objective: put an end to the wanton slaughter of innocent civilians and rescue any POW's you find.

By evading the guard patrols and thier fierce German Shephards, you find your way to the outside fence.  Slipping some wire cutters out of your vest pocket, you cut a hole through a portion of that fence and climb through.  By the time they notice the hole, you should be in the main building.  Your luck holds out!  The low stone wall around the front door is just a few yards away.  You can see several guards posted in guard positions behind the wall.

After killing the guards you jumped over the low wall surrounding the heavy steel door.  What lies behind the door is anybody's guess...and your destiny.

Tossing caution to the wind and humming the Star Spangled Banner, you slam the door wide open...

A whole new cast of characters have joined the traditional Wolfenstein soilders.  This cast of infernal horrors heeds the call of Satan's Son and seek to protect him from the onslaught of any who try to harm him.  Below are some of the more common inhabitants of the dungeons:


Hordelings:  These netherworld demons are careful to hide in the most ingenious and dangerous places.  Watch your back.

Gretta Grosse: Hans' and Trans' little (are you kidding?) sister is as fierce a fighter as her bigger brothers.  Her voice is as deep too.  you better run quickly to avoid her double fisted 
action.

Otto Giftmacher: This villian makes a return appearance in The Oswiecim Operation.  For those who haven't met him, one need only say one thing about Old Otto: Death wears a white uniform.

The Red Mass: He's big, red and wants to eat you well done.  

Aww Come On... Sorry, I have to leave a few surprises don't I?  Needless to say, there are a couple more enemies and loads of new walls and objects.

Special thanks goes to Laz Rojas (graphic support and advice), Mark (playtesting and advice), my Wife (toleration and moral support), Jan Patters (moral support)

As in my other scenarios, you will want to watch your ammo supply and be careful using the first aid packs. Both are infrequently placed and often in out of the way places.  I hope you enjoy playing this game as much as I did making it!