I've done it again. Came up with an idea, ended up with almost more trouble than it's worth. Then again, this project is worth a lot. Let's see... Having already made a dog-centered post in the past, I decided to round up all the other animals (excluding wolves, of course). We've got deer, cows, squirrels, cats (technically), dogs again... Livestock inventory, pets and free-ranging strays. To wit:

Attack of the Wild Deer - 3 maps - author unknown. Two wide open maps, then a totally underwhelming finale.

Blitzkrieg,Red-dog - 3 maps - author unknown. The maps get progressively smaller and don't have all that much content in the first place.

Castle Schwinehund - 6 maps - author unknown. Features more of those interesting wide open designs like Attack of the Wild Deer, as well as some other tricks like heavy use of (fake) elevator walls, but seems to peter out a bit towards the end.

Cow and Chicken and Moose - 3 maps - author unknown. Starts out pretty fun, but progresses into a maze among other things. The only set in this release to feature new graphics (one sprite, one wall).

Katzenjammer - 3 maps - Jim G. Phynn. Finally not an unknown author! Jim seems to enjoy spelling things out with walls in the editor, though of course you're unlikely to decipher any of his messages. Lots of single-tile passages, plus an all-out slaughter later on.

Mad Cow City - 3 maps - Josh Mills. Well, we've still got some maps by Josh unported, what do you say to that? Of course, there's no cows and no city here, and to be honest, no madness either. You do get to explore a variety of surroundings though, and the mod remains interesting throughout.

Mission Squirrel World - 19 maps - Steven Massey. Ah, one of the two big players in today's game. However, it turns out that 19 maps is a *lot* even in terms of 64x64 Wolf3D maps, so after an energetic, auspicious start, things gradually slow down somewhat, levels getting smaller and smaller. The few final ones try to make up for it by unusual use of space, but come on, you're beyond such cheap tricks, aren't you?

Squirrel World II - 11 maps - Steven Massey. Yup, more squirrels, and it's a similar story, with floors becoming somewhat less substantial as time passes. While some later maps offer elongated pathways or layouts blown wide open akin to our first mapset of today, you will find things less and less sating eventually. Still, maybe I'm being too harsh here; after all, both squirrel episodes are perfectly functional chunks of Wolf3D matter. 

The Pelican Brief - 4 maps - author unknown. We're firmly back into author unknown territory, as well as famous novel territory. Not gonna lie, there's some decent combat in here, as well as some optional areas in case you don't want everything to be a straight line towards the goal.

Zoo - 5 maps - author unknown. So yeah, the final mapset's name sort of sums up the whole deal. To be frank there's not much of a zoo in here, just five relatively small maps packed rather densely with enemies and secret pushwalls. Oh, and guess who's the final boss? That's right, the Zoomeister. Wait, does that even make sense? Well, no matter. We're done!

===CREDITS===
Jim Phynn, Josh Mills, Steven Massey, and a bunch of anonymous mappers.