The long corridor seems lifeless. No sound of any kind can be heard. All is deadly quiet in every direction. On both sides, the grey walls are decorated with red flags, the swastika symbol on their centre. Blue vases are placed symmetrically all over the place, green lights hang from the ceiling. Ahead, the path turns to the right and disappears from sight. A little brown tree rests on the corner.

The right arm is raised, the handgun held. The index finger is ready to pull the trigger. Warm drops of sweat come down from the forehead and bath cheeks, neck and shoulders. The grey uniform is full of stains of the blood that once belonged to the corpses left behind. The whole body is stiff, the tension grows as the seconds go by.

Straight against the right wall, the soldier moves on. He reaches the end of the corridor and slowly takes a glance at the path's continuation. The coast is clear. Walking stealthily he gets to the end of the road. A metallic door is closed in front of him; two Hitler portraits, one on the right and one on the left, complete the scene.

Fearing the worst, the soldier takes a deep breath and opens the door. Silence. No one is in there. A small room, empty tables and empty chairs all around. Another door is on the right. As he walks towards it, he begins to smile joyfully - it is an elevator chamber. Once into it, he will pull a switch down, and no longer will he be on this floor.

Keeping nothing but that desire in mind, he rushes to the door and opens it. Seconds later, the switch goes down and the movement begins. Another level is finished, he will not see that creepy long corridor again, or so he thinks...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The morning was cold. After what had been a gray, cloudy week, the first drops of rain finally began to pour down upon the streets of London. Wind had started to blow strongly on Wednesday, and by Thursday it fiercely whipped trees, traffic lights and pedestrians all across the city. 

The year was 1945. Europe had been the scenery of what in the future many books would call 'The Second World War', but that was over now. Adolf Hitler had been dead for about a month, and with his demise, the scarce German forces that still battled had lost all hope, and had ultimately collapsed before the Allies' feet.

The Third Reich had crumbled. The Nazis had failed. No longer would they be able to threat the European nations with their sickly, insane obsession of world domination. Nobody but them knew for sure what would have happened had they succeeded. Would they have gone on with the rest of the world? Perhaps...

On the corner of a well-known avenue stood a respectable hospital, the best one in London. Inside, a surgeon and a nurse stopped their steps in front of a room upon whose door a plate read '303'. It was closed. Someone was sleeping in the bed inside. He was recovering from the injuries he had sustained in battle. (...)