Escape from Totenhaus
SPECIAL EDITION

It's the spring of 1943. You're working as an undercover agent behind enemy lines, passing yourself off as a German in a quaint Bavarian village. One afternoon, you're sitting in a tavern sipping schnapps and flirting with a pretty fraulein when someone identifies you as an Allied spy. Before you can amiably protest and offer to buy the man a drink, somebody else hits you on the back of the head and the lights go out.
The next thing you know, you wake up in what appears to be the basement of a large mansion. But this is no ordinary mansion. This is Totenhaus (House of Death), the dreaded location where Allied spies are taken to be interrogated and executed, overseen by a detachment of cruelly efficient Gestapo and Waffen-SS.
Until now. no one has escaped from Totenhaus alive. Will you be the first?

BOSSES

FRIEDA
The youngest of the Weibchen sisters, a trio of specially trained female assassins, she wears skintight leather and carries twin chainguns.
INGE
Armed with two chainguns like her younger sister, she proves the old saying. "Deadlier than the male".
BETTINA
The eldest of the Weibchen sisters, she brandishes a rocket launcher in addition to a chaingun.
HANS TROTTEL
The General's personal bodyguard, his strength and sheer bulk more than make up for his dimwittedness. Proof that sometimes brains are not better than brawn.
COLONEL DUMPFBACKE
Second-in-command at Totenhaus. he sports a rocket launcher and a bad attitude.
GENERAL SHEISSKOPF
Totenhaus is his castle. He'll make sure it's your final resting place.

Enemies

KILLER DOGS
These rabid German Shepherds are fierce, ferocious and go right for your throat.
WAFFEN-SS SOLDIER
These guys go down easy, but Totenhaus is literally crawling with them.
SS STORMTROOPER
Members of the elite Schutzstaffel. these guys tote MP40 machine guns and wear bullet-proof vests.
WAFFEN-SS OFFICER
Not as plentiful at Totenhaus as soldiers, but they are lightning quick with a Luger.
GESTAPO OFFICER
Quick and silent killers, you'll never hear them until it's too late.

Weapons and Ammo

MACHINE GUN
Efficient and powerful, it's the primary armament of the SS stormtroopers.
CHAINGUN
A destructive killing machine, but it has a healthy appetite for ammunition.
FLAME THROWER
Shoots out fireballs that'll take out anything in their way.
ROCKET LAUNCHER
This can take down a whole slew of troops with just a couple of shots.
AMMO CLIP
Contains 5 rounds for pistol, machine gun, and chaingun.
AMMO BOX
Contains 25 rounds for pistol, machine gun, and chaingun.
GAS CAN
Refills the flame thrower. Good for 14 shots.
ROCKET CRATE
Contains 5 rockets for the rocket launcher.
BACKPACK
Increases the amount of ammo you can carry. Also contains 20 rounds. 4 shots for the flame thrower, and 5 rockets.

Other items

DOG FOOD
Gives a 4% boost to your health. Better than nothing!
DINNER
Gives a 10% boost to your health.
MEDKIT
Gives a 25% boost to your health.
ONE-UP
Restores your health to 100% and gives you an extra life.
KEYS
Some doors throughout the mansion are locked. These will open them.
TREASURE
Pick up 50 of these in any one level and you get an extra life.
