Summer, 1942. The twilight sky was shackled, trapped in the confines of clouds as dark and 
heavy as lead. 

Enveloped in these clouds was a world in despair. 
In the east, Hitler's soldiers were preparing themselves to deal a shattering blow hot on the 
heels of last year's decimating victories. 
In the west, the Germans were poised to revive Operation Sea Lion at any moment, putting an end 
to Great Britain's staunch resistance. 
And in the depths of the Nazi empire, further threats are brewing, as doctor Schabbs is mastering 
his mutant-making formula and Otto Giftmacher is preparing his own insidious chemical war. 


In these trying times, the world's greatest hope was in great individuals, heroes who risked limb 
and life in service of their motherland, fighting Nazi rule with unmatched ferocity. 

Heroes, like OSA's William Joseph "B.J." Blazkowicz. 

And yet, there he was, captured, battered 
and tossed into a prison cell like a rag doll. 

It was supposed to be a standard mission. 
Standard for his caliber, at any rate. 
Go behind enemy lines, finish off a high-ranked Nazi officer, leave undetected. But things went 
south in a hurry. A betrayal. A firefight. Overwhelming forces. 
Taken alive, to be interrogated, then killed at a later date. 



You are Blazkowicz. 

The cell is damp  and silent, its walls and floor of dark blue stone, 
cold to the touch. There's no bed and no food. 
Under a set of chains lie some old bones. They rattle quietly as you touch them, pondering your 
grim fate. 
Suddenly, your ears pick up some sounds coming from the outside. Perhaps your interrogator 
is already here. 

Do you

...
(S)tay where you are, or
(H)ide at the door?



> H



You rapidly collect yourself and prepare yourself to make a stand. You hold your breath. 
Some muffled footsteps can be heard, then the lock clicks and the heavy door swings open with a 
horrid creak. You use the sudden noise to surprise your momentarily bewildered enemy. 
You have but a fraction of a second to assess him. 
Bulky and hardy, but pretty old for a soldier. His brown uniform seems somewhat worn out. 
His metal helmet drops down and clatters on the floor as your fists strike his face and stomach. 
Seconds later, he's lying on the floor, incapacitated. 

Do you...


Go for his (p)istol, or 
Go for his SS (d)agger?



> d



You unsheathe the soldier's dagger and grip it firmly. 
It's a ceremonial weapon, but it's also a fine piece of craftsmanship, still good in a fight.


You take a moment to survey your surroundings. 
You're standing in a wide corridor leading both left and right. To the right there's a nearby 
corner You can already hear foosteps and alarmed shouts from that direction; someone must 
have heard your tussle. To the left is a poorly lit passage leading to areas unknown. 

Do you...


Go (r)ight, or
 Go (l)eft?



> l



Wary of baddies approaching you from the right, you instead run to the left, looking to buy some 
time in the darkness. You're about to dive into the black when a powerful blast shakes the air 
and you feel tremendous pain streaking through your whole body. 
Then everything falls quiet. 
As life leaves your prone body, you twist your head just enough to see your former enemy get up 
and wipe the blood off his face, his hand gripping his gun. 
Perhaps you should have gone for the pistol instead of the dagger.

 

YOU ARE DEAD

 Or... are you? 

This new, exciting adventure 
game is a fascinating retelling of the Wolfenstein 3D story! See if you can do better! 

Let the gripping storyline enthrall you! Make meaningful choices and save the world, or die trying!