
   The GRAPHICS.xxx files are for specifying graphics patches (VSWAP files,
and if present, VGAGRAPH and VGAHEAD files). The xxx is WL1 for shareware 
Wolfenstein, WL6 for registered Wolfenstein, SOD for Spear of Destiny, and 
SDM for the Spear of Destiny 2-level demo. 
    
   The format of the GRAPHICS.xxx file is as follows:

1-3 5-27
ext title that appears on graphics menu

ORG Wolfenstein 3-D
MEG Megawolf 3-D

   The original graphics should have an entry with a unique name (NOT the 
same as xxx from GRAPHICS.xxx). ORG is a good choice (for "original"). Each 
subsequent entry will have its own file extension association, and the 
corresponding file name will be VSWAP.extension. In the above example, the 
Megawolf vswap file would be named VSWAP.MEG in the shareware Wolfenstein
directory.

   The same applies to the maps/levels, only now the file to update is 
LEVELS.xxx and the files associated with each entry will be MAPHEAD.yyy and
GAMEMAPS.yyy. Any saved games will be associated with their levels/maps,
and will also be named SAVEGAM?.yyy where ? can be 0-9.

   Samples of the GRAPHICS and LEVELS files are included with a .SAM 
extension.
   
   For the browser to find the documentation files, these must be associated
with their respective graphics and/or levels files, and the name must be 
README.yyy. A second document file can be browsed if it is called README2.yyy.

   In the example above, Megawolf 3-D is a shareware patch with two 
documentation files: MEGAWOLF.TXT and MEGHINTS.DOC. The patch consists of 
both graphics and maps. So the full setup for this patch is as follows:

   Make sure the WL1 entry in WOLFMENU.CFG points to the correct directory
in which the shareware game resides (already done, probably).
  
   Add an entry for Megawolf in GRAPHICS.WL1 as in the above example. The 
LEVELS.WL1 file will get the same entry in this case. (Note: each entry must 
have an associated patch - no blank lines or rem'ed out notes or anything 
else is supported. WolfMenu checks for mismatches and will try to advise you 
of the problem.)

   Rename the Megawolf VSWAP to VSWAP.MEG and the map/level files to 
MAPHEAD.MEG and GAMEMAPS.MEG. Rename MEGAWOLF.TXT to README.MEG and 
MEGHINTS.DOC to README2.MEG (provided that is your preferred order). All of
these *.MEG files should be put in the shareware directory. Note: if the
VGAGRAPH/VGAHEAD files are also part of the patch (opening screen, score/ammo/
health/keys panel, etc.), these files would also be renamed to VGAGRAPH.MEG 
and VGAHEAD.MEG. 

   You're ready to go. You can select the Megawolf patches on the
shareware graphics and levels menus, plus if you enter a ? when the patch is
highlighted, you will be able to browse the documentation.

   To delete a patch, remove its entry from the GRAPHICS.xxx and/or the
LEVELS.xxx file and remove its files from the directory. Note that if a
patch is currently active, its files will have the true game extension
(i.e. .WL1, etc.), and you won't see VSWAP.yyy for the selected patch.
The best thing to do before deleting files is to activate the original 
graphics and levels. Then only the ORG files will appear to be missing, and
all other patch files will have their assigned file extensions.

