 ABANDON 
51 LEVELS GUIDE
STORY


January 30, 1933. At night, Adolf Hitler was selected to the leader of Germany. In 

1939, he have made so much rubbish, that there was declared war. That made him mad, 

and now he waits for revenge. In 1940, you start the assault on Castle Wolfenstein, 

then Castle Hollenhammer and all that. All died. BUT! In episode 2, it says: You 

 stand over ”Schabbs’ fat, evil body”. But eh..did the text said that he died? So 

a couple of hours after you came out of Eisenfaust, he woke up and did follow you. 

He ”mutanted” all the bosses. Except Fatface, he weight was too high. JOKE Then he 

gave them human-feelings, so it shouldn’t be wrong to meet them. In 1946 he were 

finish. But one thing were missing. Hans Grosse couldn’t be. What should he do? He 

find 35 SS-men who were ready to suicide. He made ’em that way, so Hans Grosse was 

just as big as them. So he is a bit easier(and more realistic). 35 clones is in here.


But in 1947, you start on another mission: Abandon. It starts here. In 1947, the 

 germans did import the new american invention: Computers. Or datamachines, they 

were big. The germans are using them. You start in a cargo, were some of them are, 

so you can see them. 


		       INGAME(INTERMISSION)

Attention! I have remade episode 1 many times. That’s why it is so boring. So don’t 

panic – just jump through it. Also me think episode 1 is rubbish – but that’s it. 

And it crashed here – so there’s only one level. Duh..

		        INGAME

You’ll get weapons, of course. The standard weapons from Wolf, listed:

Knife – Good for dogs.
Luger – A handgun. Good to guards.
MP40 – Machinegun! SS and bosses, mutants is this ones favorite.
MP34 GMPG – A chaingun. It shoots very fast and is a good one for bosses.

(Couldn’t inset pictures. But you know ’em!) (Crossed fingers)




		NEW ITEMS INGAME:

                      Instead of food you’ll see this:


It’s a ”nazi-biscuit” package. It’s only a nickname. It’s ration-dry crackers. The 

BIX Company makes those, but the X is dropped, and they are supported by nazis, and 

they’re also their most known customers and nazis love those. They are dry, but they 

contain a little chocolate. 

		

Instead of a medkit you’ll see this:


This fellow is better. Everyone thinks that this one is also a rationfoodbox. Well, 

it isn’t. It’s energy-crunch. It’s a big momma, so it also contains a soda and a 

bit of bread. A ”familypacket” we’ll say in our days. The cracker is chocolate and 

caramelfilled. Yummy! But’s a nazicracker. EW! (…)                               

                       


Another new. This is General Fatface’s brother. He is younger, but in 1944, when 

Fatface died, he became mad. He hurry joined the army and three years later he became 

major in the army. He now keeps Episode 3. But when Schabbs ressurected him, a mistake 

happened. Schabbs did also ressurect Barnacle Wilhelm, and mixed it with Fettgesicht. 

SO – now both Barnacle and Fettgesicht are one person. But don’t worry – it’s the 

same difficulties.

THE MUTANT

The new mutant is simple. The germans also did the South Americans under WW2. Many 

dead ”guerilla”’s were ressurected by Schabbs and used to mutation, cause the old 

mutants were ran out. So, this guy is more difficult, and borrowed with permission 

from MajikMonkee and Mr. Wolf


		EPISODE 1 - RUNAWAY

October 17, 1947. You must get in the 20 floor high castle Zugspitze. But how? You 

must come out of the administration center you’re set in. Run out of here – there’s 

only one level. The chief here is Hans Grosse. Schabbs has cloned him many times 

so he ain’t the only one – in the game. The only level here in Episode 1 starts with 

a tunnel in a lair. Then a dorm – then a living room and then a deathvalley. That’s 

it. But anyway – the level guide:

LEVEL GUIDE FOR EPISODE 1:

1 – Administration center. Here you’ll enter the castle. It aren’t on the first floor. 

It’s a lead corridor to the elevator, which leads to the first floors. Contains the 

first Grosse clone, which you’ll meet in every episode, perhaps often. It’s a so 

called ”UberWermacht Guard”, which Hitler and Schabbs are started to create.

                                                                     
		EPISODE 2 – THE MISERY

December 3, 1947. After infiltrating you come to floor 1 on second stage. A SS-guard-Hitler 

ghost-mix, which makes this episode courious. Anyway, you reach it. In the barrels, 

you start with is guards. They can’t be seen, cause they hide in them. They send 

stuff via radar to the leader, Eisenstein Giftmacher. He is Giftmachers brother. 

When Schabbs ressurected him, he ran away and since nobody seen him. His brother 

is a human, so it weren’t difficult to get new leaders. This guy’s nuts. Born 1890, 

studying hard from 1907-20 in war, but in 1926 he became in the army. In 1935 he 

became a nazi and since he hanged out with Hitler, and did come in a kind of Hitlerjugend.


 
LEVEL GUIDE FROM EPISODE 2:

Level 1 – Hall. As usual you start infiltrating in a lot of small rooms.

Level 2 – Walkthrough. Simple(I have made three different E2L2 levels until i had 

enough. Every time i started it, it allways crashed. So i’m sorry, but i couldn’t 

make it other ways. Besides, these kind of levels wouldn’t come again in Abandon.)


 
Level 3 – Uber Heights. A fine place where you must find a secret to win.

Level 4 – Uber Contohr. Means Higher Office. Fine, gold-diamonded and everything. 

Officers takes the most, bust also SS. Guards are just there.

Level 5 – Festung. A shield. Has 125 guards so beware! In here, you’re wanted, of 

course you are in every level, but here they have posters with you!
 
Level 6 – Mutant lair. From here the mutants are in the lead. This level starts with 

ONLY mutants.

Level 7 – Stage. Big, wooden and full of mutants.

Level 8 – GG Clonelab. Gretel Grosse-clones houses in the end, but else mutants.



Level 9 – Earth’s poisoned. For mutants, this is real. They are behind tables now, 

so it’s a little difficult. Hans Grosse appears…

Level 10 – The Deathmatch with Giftmatch – Eisenstein’s level. He isn’t the only 

enemy here.

 		EPISODE 3 – PERFECT STRANGERS

February 27, 1948.
Many times you have been informed on this project. Hitler’s transporting to Austria, 

where he can’t be shot. That makes you going down the alps, and now you’re in a bunker 

in Munich. It’s a so-called ”classic” bunker. Many leaders were discussed, but the 

boss was Jostein Fettgesicht. General Fettgesicht from the classic wolf’s brother. 

This one’s is not that highgraded, and he is mixed with Barnacle Wilhelm in Schabbs’ 

failed experiment.

LEVEL GUIDE FOR EPISODE 3:

Level 1 – Start. Set in a big bunker. A former morgue.

Level 2 – Goldtank. If you can’t find the gold, which is set here, then go for secrets.



Level 3 – Wooden West Wing. A stronghold – many guards, but some is in cages.

Level 4 – Leaved East Wing. How familar. Filled with mutants, Stony walls and so 

on. This level is one of the two mutant-levels in this episode.

Level 5 – Festung. A shield to not come to the next level. Heavily guarded.

Level 6 – Castle. Find out of here – in style with level 5, but not so guarded.

Level 7 – Outrance – The outway is short, but find a secret and you’ll see..

Level 8 – Tunnel. Says itself. But it’s a castle.

Level 9 – Sewercentral. In the sewer the guards has a thing. They must guards this 

office, so you can’t see were Hitler hides. So find them planes, man! (?)

Level 10 – Barnacle Fettgesicht. Very mysterious. The mix is here – so kill ”it”.




		EPISODE 4: DEATH OF DER FUEHRER

June 29, 1948.
Schabbs did ”ressurect” all the old bosses. Now you must infiltrate his lab. It’s 

mostly heavy guarded by officers, but SS is also a big feature. Now you start in 

a new castle, were the last 30 levels are. It’s Castle Hauptstein, and lays near 

the now closed kz-camp, ”Bergen-Belsen”. Here you start, in a lair on a hunt of the 

mad doctor Schabbs. Here is the Fuehrer himself  the guard so Watch out. But it is 

like Fettgesicht’s brother – when Schabbs reincarnated the bosses(?) Hitler were 

mixed with his old UG2020, Death Knight, Heeresfüehrer Rotfuchs and Barnacle Wilhelm. 

So it’s a tricky guy.  


LEVEL GUIDE FOR EPISODE 4:

1 – Lair. As episode 2 you start infiltration. 

2 – Underground. It is second floor, but this level minds of a dark underground.



3 – Morgue. Very mysterious. Covered by mutants and flamethrowers.

4 – Tunnel. Through a stony castle you must infiltrate the next two levels – the 

two torturechambers.

5 – Torture. A big, horrifying room full of death and halfliving people. Mutants 

hide here.

6 – Torture II. A not that big outrance to continue the first 10 floor of the Castle.



7 – SS Office. A place for SS, but they aren’t the only guards.

8 – Tunnel. Yet again a tunnel. But this one is different - it looks like a morgue.



9 – Height. Before the ”New Fuehrer” you must get through this enormous floor which 

looks like a bunker. In 1950, nazis will make all floors from here and up to laboratories. 

In Episode 5, 8 levels are labs.

10 – Der Fuehrer’s Face(With extras). Yet again you’ll meet this 5”7 tall, angry 

stupid kraut who only wants to destroy. Destroy him – and get pass the last 20 floors 

of Castle Hauptstein.

		EPISODE 5: CHEMICAL CRIME

December 2, 1948.
Schabbs has ressurected all them you’ll killed now. No one is left…but himself. He 

is at Hauptstein at floor 20. Now you start on second stage floor 1, which is  nine 

floors from Schabbs. If you reach him you’ll win and the world will be free of nazism. 


LEVEL GUIDE FOR EPISODE 5:

1 – Tunnel. In corpses you won, and in corpses you start, in a little laboratory.



2 – Chemic Cargo. From here, the chemicals are transported.

3 – Poison Area. Says itself. Watch out for ghosts! Quite small but very poisoned.



4 – Afterwards. Looks like a battlefield. No living guards. Many ghosts, and mutants. 

There aren’t many mutant, perhaps five or something. But some of the ghosts is walking 

around in the level. Ain’t a laboratory. Many secrets – and a little dedication:


DEDICATED TO LEVEL 13 IN PROJECT TOTENGRAEBER.

5 – Tunnel. Between skeletons and mutants you must reach it to the next floor. Even’t 

either a lab. But these two levels are just Stone Columns. So from now on the rest 

are laboratories.

6 – Guardheight. Many normal guards. Still in a laboratory.

7 – Medlab. Many nazi-crackers are created here. But it explains why there are 3 

HUGE GUARDS on this floor. Chemicals are also produced here. So eliminate this now. 

It’s a very small level, cause the factory is beginning to close. The nazicrackers 

are only eated by nazis, and there aren’t that many to keep the factory  up. All 

the crackers you’ll see in the elevator corridor is transported away. Take ’em up, 

so the nazi’s die.

8 – Medlab – A medlab. Not that big, only a kind of huge corridor. This one is only 

a ”walkthrough” like level 7. So here is a little overview for the small levels.



EPISODE 5:

4-5 – Small stone-columns, which keeps the Castle not to crash.
7-8 – Tiny tunnels, or ”Walkthrough”. Difficult guards, but very little level. 

EPISODE 6:

4-6 – Offices, ”Chess-feel” levels.
7-8 – Dungeons of Death, if you can call it. Mutants, red stone walls.
   9 – Office, ”Chess-feel” level.

9 – Office. Or a former office. In 1934 the Night of the long Knifes happened. The 

SA bunker laid beside this castle, and a mistake happened. The nazi’s didn’t think 

of it, they just ignore it. So it’s a ”leaved” place. 

NOTE: In the elevator, you get a message. It says, that Schabbs aren’t there. But 

he have ”mutanted” Hans Grosse. And named him ”Mutant Grosse”.

10 – Schabbs office. Mutant Grosse is here, but not Schabbs. Mutants are priority, 

but also guards. An old laboratory. And after your glory, the easy stuff is over.



		EPISODE 6: THE LAST SOLUTION

August 12, 1949. It’s nearly the end of nazism in Germany and certainly in the whole 

world. So after this battle, you’ve won. It’s over. Well, these levels haven’t got 

appearance, though they seems similar with normal nazi-bunkers. These floors here 

are prison, offices and so on. They aren’t easy, so beware. No bosses appears here. 

Yes, perhaps SOME do…

LEVEL GUIDE FOR EPISODE 6:

1 – Dungeon. Starts in a prison…how familar.

2 – Tunnel. Easy peasy. A tunnel, but still in a prison-dungeon thing.

3 – Enter Office. Here you’ll enter the last levels, which are offices.

4 – Restricted Area. Many normal guards. But also SS. These are guardiants for  the 

next level, which is more office-real. 

5 –  Office. A place for officers. High-ranked place.

6 – Administration Center. Before you take to the last four levels, you must get 

in here for ID and permission. Very small, but it’s only a center. Though, a stronghold 

is waiting for you at the elevator…

7 – The Dark Secret. Extremely small. Smaller than level 6 The elevator has a bad 

present for you. What shall you do? Hear - If you find a secret you’ll get into a 

”Hell”-real place. Many mutants, and a little bit like to be in Hell.

8 – Mutant Warfare. At the elevator you’ve heard an explosion. Now the walls are 

”hell”-real, and this levels is death. Pure death. Beware. It was former an office, 

until the explosion, which just happened. Not so large, but heavily guarded! Here 

the hell ends. Mysterious.

9 – Getaway. An abandoned office, where you just must defeat it all, and get to the 

last level. 

10 - ? This level is unknown. It’s the final floor, so there must be something. 


It goes under the nickname ”Mürgunstemnung” – ”Morning Surprise”.

December 18, 1949. Finally it’s over. It’s done. BJ’s last mission(or so) is over. 

Your honor is blessed by everyone and WW2 will never came on speech again.

Abandon was difficult(hmm?) so you’re frightened. But it’s over, so don’t be scared.



NOT-INGAME-WORDS:

Yeah, since 1999 i have wondered about Wolf and loved it. My dream finally came through 

first in october 2004, where i did get Mapedit 4.2 to work.

But after all this i learn how to use FloEdit and Wolfedit. 
The Release day, the 30th of november, isn’t just Abandon’s release. It’s my birthday, 

and i’m exited about getting older. When the age comes, many stops or continues or 

starts. John Bucksnort, was 80 or 81 years old when he started. I think it’s pretty 

cool for a man in that age. But newer talents, so as Conner94 and my brother(?), 

will never be better than him. I think Bucksnort is the best creator, cause no one 

can make games like him. The doom sounds and weapon and level feel – no one can do 

that. Except Lakota, Bobby Bucksnort and Dtrade, which has games who is pretty much 

in style. I don’t think you can steal his graphics that would be the new evil… 

Me, i’m 14, and i’m a newbie. I think it’s pretty dumb, but i have allways had a 

dream about making games – and i day make a TC. New status bar, more than 690 objects 

you can handle in Wolfedit, and new enemies with more than 10 colours instead of 

only one, which makes it more ugly. Like my nazicrackers. These are the only one 

of my new graphics i think is good. In the start, the beds were blue – only one colour 

blue, and that was ugly! 

Possum Trot, 20th November 2004.

CREDITS:

Brian Lowe – Support, help and without that help this game wouldn’t be.

MajikMonkee – Graphics, Inspiration and support and a little help.

Kuki – The ”Halten Sie” like officers says, is borrowed from Grauburg Dungeons.  

”Für meinen Brünner”, as the flamethrower guard yells, is borrowed from Weltundergang. 



Mr. Wolf – The new mutant Sprite from MajikMonkee’s Image World.

BJ Rowan – Graphics from Totengraeber which is an awesome game! And the ”Achtung!”-sound 

from Conflict in the Fatherland.

ToMeanToDie – Sounds from Kristallnacht. 

James Brown – The BJ sound when he wins. 

RKS Kenny – He ain’t at community anymore, but i’ve taken many graphics from Dark 

Dungeon and Wolfenken which also are games which gave me inspiration. Some sounds, 

and a small kind of ”copying levels”.

Tristan van Putten – Inspiration from TFS, and some few graphics and sounds.

Ben Blaufarb and Viper – some graphics, sounds and a sprite from TRTD and Panzerschniff, 

both are good games.

And ID Software – to create a religion, called Wolfenstein 3D.

UPCOMING:

Operation Sturmabteilung – April 2005. It’s not a sequel to Abandon.

WITH MY BROTHER MR. MONKEY AT PURPLEFAITH SOFTWARE:
Operation Cobra – November 2005(Based on Letzterschutz)
Slaves and Masters – June 2006(A ”torture-game” nothing to do with Deep Purple album 

title!!!)

Hope you like Abandon. Some times the guards are placed wrong, and there are many 

outlooks to the night. I made those when i was exited to be in Mapedit. But my next 

game will be more detailed. And today, 12th november 2004(just info) i found out 

to place the guards right. Before ”Guard 1/S/S”, was just rubbish. Now i found out 

that they ment ”Guard 1/Standing/South”. M/E Was meaning Marching/East and so on.



And i’m a newbie, so don’t wait much. If i know how to make a ”TC”  THEN you’ll see 

what my talent are eh… thanks to play Abandon anyway.

And a little extra:

My ”Operation Sturmabteilung” is out in april. It’s about the SA. The story is short 

– SA was eliminated by SS in ”Night of the long Knifes” in 1934. But SS forgot some 

– a whole bunker filled with Stormtroopers who are ready to roll.

Why SA? Because i do it in School!

And in the future i’ve planned to make even TC’s, detailed Skevos-Jones like games 

or just funny games like Simpsons lookalikes, Chokage, stuff like that.

How did i make this game…?

MapEdit 4.2 – It sucks – but it was the first i downloaded.
FloEdit – Sounds, title Screen and Endart.
WolfEdit 2.1 – Graphics, Sprites
That is the only stuff i used, because it weren’t advanced to make it. Some graphics 

are perhaps bad, but wait for my next game…it will be better.

And thanks to Brian Lowe to make my exe! Episode names and difficulties.
  
Operation Sturmabteilung contains the stormtroopers, who are in ”Projekt Vertilgung”.



 


 

