Introduction

My name is Steg Keable some people who buy MacFormat regually may have seen me under the name Stephen Keable. Since 1997 I formed a British company called Keable Enterprises  which deals with computer games, programmes etc. I also formed another company called Keable Printing  which makes Christmas cards in the Beccles, Suffolk area.
								This product is a Keable Enterprises  product which is a new Wolfenstien 3D for the Mac level set. I use WolfEdit (Inclued) which I did not creat to make Wolfenstein levels with. The full version of The Castle of Hell  consists of six levels, (Details can be found at the "Products Page") but this demo only has the first two levels of The Castle of Hell .
								WolfEdit is a program which allows you to creat levels of your very own, which you can then install onto a COPY of Wolfenstein 3D
and play forever if you want to that is. Also with plug-ins for it you can have objects from the 2nd Encounter as with out plug-ins you can only have 1st Encounter objects. Don't worry you don't need plug-ins to install The Castle of Hell  levels.


Steg' s Special: Wolfenstein 3D (Shareware Encounter)

                     Code-Effect
LEDOUX-Invinicbillty+Both keys,Max Ammo
IDDQD-Turns off LEDOUX
BURGER-All weapons,ammo
WOWZERS-999 ammo infinte
SEGER-Both keys
APPLEIIGS-Showes secret doors on map
MCCALL-Level skip
XUSCNIELPPA-Health top up+Ammo top up to max


The Castle Of Hell 

Wolfenstein 3D Level set.
Includes seven levels over two worlds.
"Keable Enterprises "
Ł3.50+Postage

Christmas Cards

Six Christmas cards on coloured paper.
Three designs. Colours include yellow,
green, pink, or plain (Please state).
"Keable Printing "
Ł1.00 Postage Free!

36 Christmas cards on coloured paper.
Three designs. Colours include yellow,
green, pink, or plain (Please state).
"Keable Printing "
Ł3.00+Postage

Postage=Ł0.50

Send to Address on the contacts page.

Contacts

Address
Steg Keable
12 Tower Hill
Beccles 
Suffolk
NR34 9YN
ENGLAND

Telephone
In the U.K. only
01502 715123