
THE STORY

Your name is Lt. Michael F. Blazkowicz. and you come from a long line of military heroes. Your grandfather, William "B.J." Blazkowicz. helped the Allies defeat the Nazis tack in World War II, and your father, William Jr., fought against the communists in Vietnam. You grew up listening to stories of their daring exploits, visions of glory dancing in your head, and when you were old enough, you enlisted in the Army and carried on the family tradition. When you were sent to Kuwait during the Gulf War, you were proud to serve your country in the fight for freedom, and you came tack with a Purple Heart and some stories of your own to tell your children and future grandchildren.

Now you're back home with your wife, son and daughter, enjoying the tranquility of peacetime. But it's a deceptive tranquility that masks the terrible trouble that's brewing right in your back yard. Some of your buddies who fought with you in the Middle East have been acting strangely, and you can't fight off the feeling that something's going on they're not telling you about. In combat, they trusted you with their lives, just as you trusted them, but now it seems they're involved in something they don't quite want to let you in on. At least, not just yet. But your unease at their behavior doesn't prepare you for the shock when your commanding officer brings you in for a top secret meeting and you find the joint chiefs of staff waiting for you. And what they proceed to reveal to you leaves you feeling completely stunned and betrayed. Apparently, some of your buddies have formed a small neo-nazi group at the base, and in turn, this group has joined a large white supremacist organization made up of armed forces personnel all across the country. For some time, they have been secretly amassing an arsenal of stolen weapons and equipment, apparently preparing for some kind of terrorist activity. The top brass has been monitoring them for the past few weeks, ever since a pattern in the thefts was detected, but no one outside of the President and a few top officers knows what's going on. If the media got wind of renegade forces within the military, chaos would ensue and no one would ever trust the armed forces again. So the existence of the conspiracy must be kept under wraps, and the traitors must be dealt with as quickly and efficiently as possible. And that time has come, as information leaked by a spy who has since disappeared indicates that the traitors plan to begin tombing various government buildings as early as next week.

Your commanding officer pauses, letting the terrible words sink in. before getting to the reason why you are here. Because of the loyalty and courage you're always displayed, inherited from your father and grandfather, you've been chosen to infiltrate the neo-nazi headquarters hidden away in an underground installation in Kansas and, very simply, put a stop to their plans. You don't even need to think twice as you nod your head and accept the mission. Your teeth clenched and your fists shaking, you can barely restrain your anger as you contemplate the ugly, horrible fact that men you once considered your friends are plotting to carry out the same kind of evil your father and grandfather once fought against, and on your native soil, no less! Whatever it takes, they must be stopped -- and once again, the enemies of freedom will recoil in horror at the name Blazkowicz!

ENEMIES

GUARD DOG
Almost as nasty as a skinhead, these mutts will go for your throat. At least they're not pit bulls.

PRIVATE
A little over-eager and on the wimpy side, but a group of them can do a lot of damage.

SERGEANT
These guys have M-16's, bullet-proof vests, and nasty dispositions.

CAPTAIN
These guys sport mohawks and have a really bad attitude.

LIEUTENANT
Not as quick as captains, but dangerous nonetheless.

JEEP
With a mounted Browning .50-caliber machine gun, this isn't exactly the welcome wagon.

HUMVEE
You drove one of these in Kuwait. Now you've got one trying to run you down.

JEEP 2
What's worse than a guy in a jeep with a machine gun? How about two guys in a jeep with a bazooka?

TANK
Needs no description.

WEAPONS AND AMMO

M-16
Rapid and automatic,  this is your trusty sidearm.
Trouble is the skinheads carry them too.

MAC-10
It slices, it dices. Proves there's more than one way to skin a skinhead.

FLAME THROWER
Want to see skinheads roasting on an open fire? Try this baby on 'em.

BAZOOKA
Knocks down a whole platoon of skinheads like bowling pins.

AMMO CLIP
Contains 5 rounds for M-16 and MAC-10.

AMMO BOX
Contains 25 rounds for M-16 and MAC-10.

GAS CAN
Refills the flame thrower. Good for 14 shots.

ROCKET CRATE
Contains 5 rockets for the bazooka.

BACKPACK
Increases the amount of ammo you can carry. Also contains 20 rounds, 4 shots for the flame thrower, and 5 rockets.


OTHER ITEMS

DOG FOOD
Gives a 4% boost to your health. Better than nothing!

DINNER
Gives a 10% boost to your health.

MEDKIT
Gives a 25% boost to your health.

ONE-UP
Restores your health to 100% and gives you an extra life.

KEYS
Some doors around the base are locked. These will open them.

ASSORTED ITEMS
Pick up 50 of these in any one level and you get an extra life.
