----------------------- Page 1-----------------------  TOM'S WOLF ANTHOLOGY    as Possum Trot  
2004-12-05: Abandon  2004-12-20: Operation Achtliebe  2005-02-02: Project Wolfgeist  2005-03-23: Abandon 2 –  Purgatory!  2005-07-28: Secrets of Offenbach    as Thomas  2006-01-01: Nazi Operation  2007-01-27: All This & Wolf 3D  2007-02-12: Castle Assault  2007-09-11: Quest for the General  2008-04-21: The Bitter  End  2008-12-04: W.O.L.F.  2009-05-31: Endlösung  2009-12-02: NovoWolf  2011-10-16: 10 New Ones  2012-01-15: Spearfishwolfbones  2012-03-20: Time to  Kill  2012-04-28: Odds and Ends  2012-08-19: Thomas' Wolfenstein 3-D  2015-01-24: Victory of Faith  2015-12-21: Wolf Overdrive  2018-12-04: Frantic Passages    Demos  
2005-08-04: Nazi Operation  2006-04-14: All This & Wolf 3D  Other releases containing unique levels  
2006-02-12: Abandon v0.0  2006-05-01: Schabbs 7000  2006-07-01: Wolfram  2012-04-24: Wolf Overkill  2012-11-08: The Iron Dream    Mods and/or map sets I contributed to  2005-09-25: Spear  Levels Pack  ----------------------- Page 2-----------------------  
2007-08-26: The Wolf 3D Community  Map  Pack  2007-12-03: Escape from Castle Holle  2008-09-13: Team Aardwolf  Map Set  2010-02-13: Super  Haven  Map Set  2011-01-07: DHW SDL  Map Set  2012-02-08: DHW SDL  Map Set [Spear  Edition]  2012-12-25: Beyond  Mutantstein SE Anniversary  Edition  2015-07-26: The DieHard Wolfers' Lost Episodes Mapset  All my contributions are described under Odds and Ends, as that particular mod collected pretty much all my various  contributions to sets over the years as of April 2012.  I first played Wolf in late 1999 when I was 8 years old. Up until that point, I had never played any video game involving  weapons, and even violence. This was not because I wasn't allowed to do so; it was simply because I had no interest in  it. I was diagnosed as a toddler as being on the autism spectrum and this is probably the best way to explain why my  interests are what they are. I played SimTown, a SimCity of sorts for kids, and I rearranged folders, files and documents  and made collages of various sounds I had heard in other games, mostly educational or for very young kids, using the  standard Sound Recorder. I also collected MIDI files, as I was always interested in music. Whenever I got hold of a CD- ROM I would search the folders for sounds and MIDI files, rather than play the actual content.  I played Wolf for the first time seconds after closing down Doom, another game found on the same compilation package  CD-ROM containing shareware games. Doom was way too violent and dark for me at that time, and so playing Wolf acted  as a comfort of sorts. Musically, going from At Doom's Gate to Get Them was quite a  relief as well. As the shareware  version was widely available on pretty much any CD-ROM and even floppy disk that lay around in the computer room at  the youth club, a lot of my peers of course knew of it, and during that time I got better and better at it and more  interested in level layouts. Sometime in 2001 my dad had found a download site containing the full version. This was  before anti-piracy had spread into common conscience, and Wolf was then already seen as "too old to matter". Playing it  was heavenly, and it got me hooked even further, as the same 10 levels were beginning to seem a bit tedious to play. This  fueled my imagination on making levels. As I entered puberty, technology progressed, and trying the Internet out for  myself for the first time in the summer of 2003, I of course searched for anything related to Wolf. I came across a  screenshot of a combination of graphics, a level number and a weapon I had never seen before. This turned out to be  Wolfenken. Its author, Kenny Roels, had a website containing download links to a handful of Wolf mods, all of which I  downloaded. The first mod I played was Blake Evolution, which utilized graphics from Blake Stone, a game I did not know  of at that time. Via the links section in the bottom of the site, I also found my way to the Wolfenstein 3-D Dome. And so  began my journey through playing mods for roughly 9 months. Between August 2003 and March 2004 I must have played  20 or 30 mods back to back. Some of my instant favorites were the aforementioned  Wolfenken, but also Totengraeber,  The Golden Episodes, Kristallnacht, The Final Solution v2.0, Dark Dungeon, Chemical Warfare, Project Weltuntergang,  Operation Panzerschiff, Projekt Vertilgung, Project Eisenritter and Spear Resurrection . I have distinct memories of playing  especially Chemical Warfare and Totengraeber from November through early January. I loved it. If I could get any other  player out there to feel just an inch of what I felt when I played these mods at that time, I feel I have succeeded in  creating a good piece of work.    In the latter part of spring 2004, I became more interested in how to make my own mods. I was never good with software  ----------------------- Page 3-----------------------  
and technology other than being a simple user, and my English skills back then were nowhere near what they are today,  naturally. I had however gotten hold of WolfEdit and figured out how to use it, and I messed around with graphics,  exported them and such, but had no idea how to implement them, nor did I know how to make actual levels. Using  Microsoft Paint, I put together what could have been site banners; wide collages containing various guards, graphics and  walls I had managed to extract from my favorite mods via WolfEdit. I also managed to make my first sprites; the ideas of  some came to life in Abandon though this was an afterthought. In additions to sprites, I also put together two or three  frames per guard of brightly colored, poorly made uniforms. This was announced as Kill the Gezis, which had nothing but  a loose storyline adapted from a made-up alternate universe I had written stacks of notebooks about as a teen inspired  by whatever knowledge I had of WWII at that point, and these few graphics. I announced under the name Togo that "at  the end of the year I will have made an add-on" on September 11, 2004. I use the term mods. I never made anything that  could be considered a TC, and "add-on" is a word I could never take to.    In late August 2004, after having required my own computer for the first time, as well as having my own Internet  connection, I rekindled my interest in Wolf and slowly started to catch up with what had happened on the scene through  spring and summer 2004. For a brief while, I was more interested in instant messaging and other coming-of-age things  than Wolf, but eventually I came back, and was enamored with what I saw. Coming of the Storm affected me deeply, I  remember. What was on everybody's mind was the soon-to-be-released End of Destiny, and as I was more a fan of  classic-themed mods, it did not appeal that much to me at the time. My new co mputer ran Windows XP, and I could not  open MapEdit just like that. I knew nothing of emulators or anything in that regard, so all my level making and modifying  took place in my younger brother's room, using an old Win98 that was stationed in there. I used it exclusively up to and  including Project Wolfgeist. With the release of the MapEdit 8.5 patch, I could make all the levels I wanted on my own  computer. However, I could play most mods on my own computer, but my aforementioned lack of knowledge of  emulators resulted in me playing all my new discoveries (Coming of the Storm, The Revenge of Poopdeck Willie, Operation  Letzterschutz etc.) without digitized sounds or music.    Sometime in September 2004 I downloaded MapEdit 4.2 and eventually I made my first level, which was a blue-stone  based level featuring pretty much only landscape, tables with chairs, an array of guards, barrels and water puddles. I  knew I had a long way to go. But I finally learned which tools to use and off I went. I downloaded pretty much any tool I  could get hold of from the Utilities section on the Dome. This also resulted in me making a level for Spear, which I already  then felt was not half as fun as Wolf. It also introduced me to FloEdit, though it would be another four months before  I  started using it exclusively and discarded WolfEdit for good.    I used to correspond often with Brian Lowe during this time, even though my English skills were still underdeveloped.  Nevertheless, he showed me how to play sets that did not include all files, e.g. Remake which I then raved about all the  while making Abandon . I also sent him snippets of updates to the Dome, even though I was a complete stranger at the  time as I was not a member of the DieHard Wolfers' forums or anything. The Kill the Gezis thing was me trying to make a  TC of sorts, and even if it had taken hold it probably would've fell through, as I had nowhere near the patience, especially  then, to pull of something that could be called a TC. I forgot about the few silly graphics I had lying around, and started to  make a set of levels, as I announced on October 9, 2004, "based on the registered game, probably with new sounds and  music", featuring 60 levels. Ten days later, I announced that I wanted to re-do "all my levels", how many I had at that  time, I don't know, but I am fairly certain that some of the levels in question were what was released as Abandon v0.0 .    My first efforts were very much inspired by the fantasies and ideas I had had about Wolf ever since imagining my own  design ideas while getting heavily into playing Wolf in 2001. Kill the Gezis sprung out of an alternate universe kind of thing  ----------------------- Page 4-----------------------  
I had going on which had its own WWII, and I would sit and sketch out level names, which floor this and that went, and so  on. This was late 2003, early 2004. This was much inspired by Totengraeber and Chemical Warfare which had higher floor  numbers than 10. Having a natural affinity for numbers and colors due to me being on the autism spectrum, I had long  imagined ceiling colors, combination with walls and sprites and floor numbers, and now finally had the tools to put my  thoughts to life. I drew a lot of inspiration from mods such as  The Final Solution, Project Weltuntergang, Operation  Panzerschniff and my all-time favorite, Totengraeber.    However, I used the original files, and it did not come out anything like those mods whatsoever, but the spark was there.  Some of these levels were released in February 2006 as Abandon v0.0 which was very much what it was. What was to  become Abandon  did not have any changed sprites, textures or sounds until sometime in November 2004 when I had  started tinkering with FloEdit, which I used alongside WolfEdit, often with disastrous results, such as the officer's dying  sprite, the half-assed mutant/Uzi guard and many, many other inconsistencies. Eventually I found a bunch of sprites,  textures and sounds I wanted in my mod, and added them accordingly. Only a handful of levels were re-made to fit this  particular set of graphics, leaving numerous levels look like a far fetch from what they were constructed as. This whole  souping up of graphics took place during November 2004, probably all in the same day, as I had sent my finished  Abandon to Brian on November 19. It would take two more weeks before it got released, and I 've got a feeling that this  was due to Brian making an EXE for it, featuring a handful of changed ceiling colors and the fact that you can obtain 110  % health and 200 ammo. I was not too keen on this when I found out, but looking back I realize he did me a tremendous  favor, and even put some understated decorations into certain levels, as well as fixing a handful of guards. I was still  completely green in MapEdit, not knowing what "1/S/E" meant etc. It would take me some months before I finally  learned what the abbreviations meant, what floor codes were and how you create a satisfactory level.    Abandon  Released: December 5, 2004  Compiled: October 19 –  November 19, 2004    ABANDON, EPISODE 1,  LEVEL  1 (#1)  Level name: Administration Center  Compiled: November 2004    As with  most levels of this game, I remember it  better from before  I replaced  most graphics in the VSWAP or  "overhauled" it. The  part of the  level which includes  both a replaced  Hitler ghost (a flamethrower guard I nicked from  one of the Dark Dungeon  mods) and the  modified  Hans Grosse was a last minute solution, as I tried two times  having  10  levels in episode  1. For some  reason, they all got corrupted, and  being  new to the whole thing and not knowing any  better, I deleted all levels as soon as the slightest error occurred and started over again without questioning, with this  particular episode being completely lost until Brian Lowe found Abandon v0.0 in late 2005, which was released on its own  in February 2006. My non-existent software background meant that I knew nothing of backups. Looking at it with  more  knowledgeable eyes now, the errors causing the corruption or the levels' ability not to work was  probably because  I  either put too  many actors or objects in it or  maybe a marching guard went outside the  level  itself. I also messed around  with different editors, all of which were in beta stage. As I used the original files, it could not have come from e.g. a  coding error.    The idea of starting in a warehouse kind of atmosphere was something I took from  Operation Letzterschutz, meaning it  ----------------------- Page 5-----------------------  
was a relatively new idea of mine. The jammed elevator containing treasure I took from  The Final Solution, which is also  where my fascination with large landscape areas barred off by standard sprites came from. I would toy with this in my  first three or four mods and only use this idea very sparsely later on. Brian added stoves and a marching dog in the  second room. Small touches like this I liked, as it was totally what I was going for. Maybe I didn't realize that at the time.  It  is  not a boss  level in particular though it does contain one; it was simply meant as being a kick-off to  Episode 2. It was  made for this purpose on the spot, late in the process.    A thing  I never  learned until later on was that the end game triggers  had to point north or south, which they did not do in  either this mod or the next one. The  ENDART files also got corrupted while  I messed with  FloEdit as I thought editing the  read-me and such could be done in that particular editor, so these were not there either. This caused the  EXE to crash, so  no episodes could  be won  properly and the  player could  never get to the high score charts.    ABANDON, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL  1 (#2)  Level name: Hall  Compiled: October –  November 2004    I originally remember an early E1L2 for this  mod, including a modified grey brick texture from one of the  many wall  packs  released. But that one got lost along with the other original levels made for this episode. This  level was made in its  shadow. The original level used the Episode 5 bl ue wall and a softwood  partition part surrounded  by barrels and spear  racks  barricading daytime  landscape textures. But  it was  rebuilt  into what is supposed to  be a cargo. The inner parts of  the  level are very castle-like, with large rooms, chandeliers and  heavy usage of the brown stone wall from the Lost  Episodes. I took to this wall after seeing it used to great effect in Totengraeber level 13, one of my all-time favorite levels  in any mod. What I wanted most with this level was to distance it from E1L1, close it  in and put many secrets into it,  giving the player something to do other than merely killing, getting the key and pulling the elevator lever.    ABANDON, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 2 (#3)  Level name: Walkthrough  Compiled: October –  November 2004    As with the other earlier levels made for this mod, I discarded the original E2L2 due to what I thought was a bug. It was  simply due to heavy usage of guards, and with there being no floor codes, the first shot may have alarmed too many  players for the engine to handle, or something to that effect. It surfaced in Abandon v0.0 as E1L3, with the level made in  its place simply being one straight line from elevator to elevator. Brian put the guards and secret areas into this level,  which was another move of his I appreciate now. I think I was just fed up of having to re-do so many levels all at once.    ABANDON, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 3 (#4)  Level name: Uber Heights  Compiled: October –  November 2004    The  main texture  here is the checkerboard texture, which  I've  loved and adored ever since  I encountered it  in Chemical  Warf are and Schabbs 2000, though, at the time  I wasn't as  much into Gary's work as  I later became. I used the wall here  to create a lobby type of environment, also used later in  Episode 6, and  marching guards, which appear here without their  turning points. It would take me some time before appreciating and using marching guards properly.  ----------------------- Page 6-----------------------    ABANDON, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 4 (#5)  Level name: Uber Contohr  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This is yet another level using the checkerboard as  its  main texture. I wanted this to  be a big, original  Episode 6 kind of  level, but it turned out  nothing  like it. Originally it featured garbled images as the only wall texture, which made it weird,  but still vaguely more interesting than the final released product. I added  haphazard details  here and there. Probably  there's a  Confl ict in the Fatherland  E1L1 influence in there somewhere. The ghost behind a stove was something  I took  from the obscure  Wolfenken and Dark Dungeon. Another thing  I took notice of in this  level is the  room with two  money  bags including a column separating this from a prison style  room containing treasure, ammo and  health items. This is a  feature  I still  use – an in-level divide of old castle/new castle, that sort of Episode  1/Episode 2  pairing. I assume the  supposed "abandonment" of the  room owes to the title of this  mod. There's also a reference to the original E6L1 with  officers  packed in  1x1 spaces.    ABANDON, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 5 (#6)  Level name: Festung  Compiled: October –  November 2004    As with so  many other levels in this  mod  I remember this  better in its original incarnation before the VSWAP overhaul. It  was a brown weave-based  level. Until All This &  Wolf 3D  I was  never really at all comfortable using the  brown weave  texture, along with the  Episode 5 blue wall. I just always  ran dry as  I started  padding out  levels with those textures  though I still had certain ideas of how I would like them to turn out.  I don't know why –  but this used the  brown weave  originally, and  I really liked it that way. The  brown weave texture is to  me the  purity of the  nocturnal episodes, and  perhaps that was what I was going for here. This was swapped for the  Lost Episodes "cornfield" texture, to which  I also  added a poster of BJ. This is also  my first  level in which a secret door must  be opened in order to access the  next  level.    ABANDON, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 6 (#7)  Level name: Mutant Lair  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This is one of many levels of this mod that looked way better using origi nal graphics. This was before the softwood  texture was replaced with the Lost Episodes brown stone wall. It features an unfair amount of "mutants" which I had  replaced with more modern-looking Uzi guards from one of my favorite mods which was then pretty fresh, Operation  Letzterschutz. I suppose with this being Episode 2, a lot was borrowed from the original episode. Around the elevator and  the gold key room I tried to create a "courtyard" atmosphere of sorts, an inaccessible "outside" area which completely  fell to the floor with the VSWAP overhaul. I took this particular idea from Project Weltuntergang episode 3 where it works  out better as the floor is dark green symbolizing grass, and small trees and bushes are featured graphics.    ABANDON,  EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 7 (#8)  Level name: Stage  Compiled: October –  November 2004  ----------------------- Page 7-----------------------    This  level came about after  having  played either Project O mega or some sort of map set that used the wood  panels. It  also features numerous bloody sprites. Usually I pair these with  blue stone, slimy walls and the  like to conj ure  up a good  dungeon atmosphere. When this level was built, I used the original mutants, wood panel and daytime landscape. This  unfamiliar environment worked quite well with all the gore, I thought. This idea was completely  lost when I smacked on  the new graphics.    ABANDON, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 8 (#9)  Level name: GG Clonelab  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This originally featured the standard wood panel, but after replacing a handful of sprites, it fit the hospital/lab wall  texture from  The Final Solution  better. The numerous Gretel Grosse bosses placed in locked armor suit compartments  were only added due to laziness. I can see now that Brian placed t wo one-ups in that particular room, and I am again  thankful that he did that! Having 5 bosses firing at you at once, Gretel or not, is rather tough, and there is no place to  hide in that room anyway.    ABANDON, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 9 (#10)  Level name: Earth's Poisoned  Compiled: October –  November 2004    The point of this level was obviously not to kill as many guards as possible, more getting the hell out of there, and fast.  The secret area in the opening room looks suspiciously modern compared to my other secret areas of this time, along  with the extra life in the corridor leading to the locked doors. Maybe Brian added these out of mercy. I never play tested  anything, and my limited MapEdit skills at the time resulted in me pretty much only using skill 1 guards in the entire mod,  this level being no excuse. Whether or not it can be won  I still don't know.    ABANDON, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL  10 (#11)  Level name: The Deathmatch with Giftmatch  Compiled: October –  November 2004  Boss level    All in all, compared to other boss levels of this mod, this is OK. The boss room features a marching guard with turning  points, obviously added or fixed by Brian, and the boss shares floor codes with other "compartments" of guards,  something I still use. I think I took it from Doom. The locked door in the boss area only confirms the fact that I was  desperate to use an EXE with seamless levels. Slotting levels into episodes was then considered very unfashionable by  me but I had no choice as I had not talked to anybody yet who could code. Luckily this didn't take too long once I signed  up at the DieHard Wolfers' forum in late November 2004.    ABANDON, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL  1 (#12)  Level name: Start  Compiled: October –  November 2004  ----------------------- Page 8-----------------------    This was originally built as a blue stone level. I always liked that you can glance into another secret area from a secret  area, and later on I would incorporate this feature successfully. I don't know why I suddenly got an epiphany about the  checkerboard texture. A lot of the original spirit of many levels of this mod got lost that way, but I liked the way it was  used in Schabbs 2000 and Chemical  Warfare.    ABANDON, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 2 (#13)  Level name: Goldtank  Compiled: October –  November 2004    Before  I overhauled the VSWAP, this was a brown  marble/brown stone  level with a bright, Episode 6 kind of atmosphere.  As with so  many other levels, this turned into a drab  mush featuring the checkerboard wall in a quite  bland  manner, with  a repetitive approach in terms of sprites and guard  placement. There are also a number of corpses on tables  placed  rather randomly, something  I took from The Final Solution  level 0, a level I always had an affinity for. Most domestic  sprites (plants, vases, wells etc.) were replaced by random lab sprites (nuclear barrels, tables) late in the process,  explaining the sometimes out-of-place atmosphere they create.    ABANDON, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 3 (#14)  Level name: Wooden West Wing  Compiled: October –  November 2004    I remember this as a cozy wood  panel  level with a heavy Episode  1 atmosphere. For some  reason the  name  "West Wing"  popped into  my head –  I suppose it has something to do with a Barry Christian  mod featuring an entire section dubbed  "The West Wing". The worst thing in this  level for the  player is  probably the  redundant Hans Grosse in a 2x1 room behind  a bed. The room next to the gold key area, however, looks more streamline d than I had expected, looking at it now. The  wood panel with the Hitler picture decoration was replaced by a storage texture from  Operation Letzterschutz, and  apparently I did not have the foresight to check up on the levels after this was done, which mad e wood panel based  levels like this look fragmented and silly.    ABANDON, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 4 (#15)  Level name: Leaved East Wing  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This  level features "mutants" exclusively. In its original guise, I recall it used the  multi-colored brick texture  but  little else.  I used way too  much treasure  behind secret doors  back then. Way too  much. Again this is a typical move for a first effort  –  lots of crowns, lots of all the things you never felt were used enough in the original Wolf, anything to get an insane high  score.    ABANDON, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 5 (#16)  Level name: Festung  Compiled: October –  November 2004    ----------------------- Page 9-----------------------  
All things considered, this level looks pretty good compared to most of the levels of this mod. But as with so many other  levels, it looked way better with daytime  landscape and gray stones. I'm still certain that this entire  mod would've  made  more sense if  I  had kept the original graphics – and if I had tested it before releasing it.    ABANDON, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 6 (#17)  Level name: Castle  Compiled: October –  November 2004    I don't know why this  particular level starts with you facing the elevator switch. Other than that it's j ust a fairly large  red  brick level I don't remember much about making. Again there is too much treasure, but as mentioned earlier, this is what  you tend to do when you make your first levels. All I wanted in original Wolf was to get a bigger high score.    ABANDON, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 7 (#18)  Level name: Outrance  Compiled: October –  November 2004    Obviously this is a much watered-down take on the original E2L7. The  novelty wears off quite fast though, as there is  no  actual level behind the starting  point, the  key room and the elevator. Instead the  player  is "treated" to an insane amount  of crowns in what appears to  be a  maze, or whatever; a very poor effort of mine – and I cannot get over the patchy  English I sported back then. The level name says it all. The attached manual is even worse if not just plain comical, in  hindsight. But by the time we get to mid-2005 I could  laugh at these things, luckily.    ABANDON, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 8 (#19)  Level name: Tunnel  Compiled: October –  November 2004    Yet another one utilizing  large  rooms, barrels, a whole  lot of guards. Using columns in the  middle of rooms was  new to  me at this time, and so they look quite out of place. This features "radar" sprites I made, which replaces the standard  table and the spear rack, respectively. I did not care for them when I made them, as I was never good with graphics, at  least of this caliber. It appealed to me more as an idea rather than a concept that should work, as their placement is  completely random and probably just thrown into a handful of levels on the same day I sent the finished product to  Brian. The  hallway leading to the elevator utilizes the sandy brick from Spear Resurrection. I always liked the graphic  environment of that particular mod, but none of it fits well in this mod.    ABANDON, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 9 (#20)  Level name: Sewercentral  Compiled: October –  November 2004    Another level using the "radar" environment, albeit very loosely. I remember writing the manual late in the process, and  then going back to several levels and scattering sprites across them so they would see eye to eye with what was written  in the manual, which was yet another silly move. I had plenty of ideas for things, but I could never merge them into a  single stream that would make sense or play well.  ----------------------- Page 10-----------------------    ABANDON, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL  10 (#21)  Level name: Barnacle Fettgesicht  Compiled: October –  November 2004  Boss level    Everything about this level is  horrendous. Due to one of the aforementioned level "bugs", I was too lazy to re-do a level  for the E3L10 slot, so I instead made this level around the original E3L10, which  has  next to  nothing to do with anything  related to a boss  level. I thought I could wing  it and  make it cool and interesting  but failed enormously. To add insult to  inj ury, I wrote of a "Barnacle  Fettgesicht" in the attached  manual, a ridiculous cover-up of the fact that WolfEdit could  not handle  me  replacing General  Fettgesicht with Barnacle Wilhelm at first, and then wanting to  revert to the general  again. Even the old turning points are there! Furthermore, the elevator again implies my hunger for seamless level flow.  Thankfully I can laugh at this now.    ABANDON, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL  1 (#22)  Level name: Lair  Compiled: October –  November 2004    I only remember this from after the VSWAP overhaul. I liked the slightly cartoony  looking  red brick wall, I had made it  myself in Microsoft Paint, and at the time I liked it. It does stick out like a sore thumb, though, with all the other walls.  This also features askew columns  barricading landscape viewable  horizontally and vertically – something  I picked up in  The Final Solution.    ABANDON, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 2 (#23)  Level name: Underground  Compiled: October –  November 2004    Abandon v0.0  level 2 must have been the genesis of this mod. A purple stone level with prominent "mutant" and officer  presence along with various sprites was very much what I was going for. The feel was kept here to a certain extent, in  that the purple stone was merely replaced by a re-coloring rather than an entirely different wall texture. Again I was  playing around with landscape viewed from both sides.    ABANDON, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 3 (#24)  Level name: Morgue  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This was also inspired  by  The Final Solution,  but in all honesty I did not play that  particular mod  until after I had taken my  first stabs  playing Dark Dungeon, a mod that utilized  many of its sprites and walls. So that particular atmosphere  hung  heavier in the air than The Final Solution; the flamethrower guard that replaces the Hitler ghost also comes from there.  I  do not recall any brown marble levels, so I am fairly certain that this level was made after I had replaced it with the  hospital/lab wall. At this time, I did not care for the brown marble wall, but I would eventually warm to it. Its lighter  variation would take even longer for me to take into use.  ----------------------- Page 11-----------------------    ABANDON, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 4 (#25)  Level name: Tunnel  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This  level  is  rather large, still has a lot of flaws and  loose ends, but still makes a long  play. I was  never that good in  my first  couple years of making levels in creating a thoroughly difficult, time-consuming level. I just made what I felt  like; even if it  meant that some were  repetitive as hell and done in very little time. So in that respect this  is  pretty good. Of course we  have the obligatory lab which turns into a  bathroom. The white lab wall from the Lost Episodes just looked so much like  the plain tapestry we had in the bathroom at home, so it just felt natural. The officer guards zoom around this level like  crazy. The opening room is a disaster, though. In terms of structure and content, this has nothing to do whatsoever wit h a  tunnel.    ABANDON, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 5 (#26)  Level name: Torture I  Compiled: October –  November 2004    There are  heavy traces of  Totengraeber  level  13 in  here as it used the same Lost Episodes brown stone wall. I always liked  making large, rustic castle levels, but I felt that this was better accomplished with gray slime, blue stone or other wall  textures that symbolize and recalls these episodes better. Having replaced the standard columns with the iron pillar from  The Final Solution was a clever move, though, as it adds to the bleakness. This may have been constructed with an  entirely different idea, perhaps an office, as officers are the only present guards, only being made over in the eleventh  hour due to forgetfulness with the manual's level guide.    ABANDON, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL  6 (#27)  Level name: Torture II  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This is sort of a lighter version of the previous level, and in lack of better ideas, both Hans Grosse and the Pac -Man  ghost replacement, the Lost Episodes ghost, are featured. Again I am not certain if I remade this to comply with the  manual's level guide, as the purple stone texture was never replaced as such, merely re-colored to black. Again officers  reign supreme.    ABANDON, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 7 (#28)  Level name: SS Office  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This was made using blue stone, and I had replaced the familiar sign graphic with an iron cross of sorts from one of the  wall packs, downloaded from the Dome. This was of course replaced with the re-colored brown stone, which conjures up  an entirely different, more sandy atmosphere. I don't know when the lab area was added or if it at any point looked  different. The gold key room features a vantage point of sorts.  Hans Grosse makes yet another appearance. Had this  been released with the original graphics, the original large Grosse wouldn't look as much out of place. I chose to replace  ----------------------- Page 12-----------------------  
him with the then-recent new, guard-sized Grosse from MajikMonkee's Image World which doesn't sit well with the  general idea of having  Hans Grosse popping in every now and then a la the original E2L8 and E6L10, nor the fact that a  small guard takes so long to kill.    ABANDON, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 8 (#29)  Level name: Tunnel  Compiled: October –  November 2004    As the demo feature was  never removed, this  level's elevator stars in it –  not a clever move. The opening  room is a big  mess. Officers are  running around, a blue brick wall all of a sudden appears due to it replacing brown marble #2 and the  hospital/lab wall originally being brown marble #1, and columns  barricading nighttime  landscape  never agreed with the  bright white ceiling. I always wanted scientist guards as a fourth standard guard. But as  I had yet to encounter either Kyle  or Havoc or Michael Collin, I felt I needed to  improvize. Original officer guards wore white and that suited the  lab  part  fine. What I forgot when  I overhauled the VSWAP was the fact that the "new" officers were clad entirely in black so they  look very goofy and out of place in a lab environment.    ABANDON, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 9 (#30)  Level name: Height  Compiled: October –  November 2004    The j uxtaposing slime/lab environment  here, spiced with the ordinary red  brick, actually works quite well. Guard  placement is another matter though, and  most of the sprites are  haphazardly  placed. However, the opening secret door  area is a slight step up the  ladder for me, I think. That probably came out of Schabbs 2000  level 6. There's also a secret  bathroom area featuring heaps of treasure, something that may have come from Spear Resurrection.    ABANDON, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL  10 (#31)  Level name: Der Fuehrer's Face (with Extras)  Compiled: October –  November 2004  Boss level    Long before SDL when this was made, it was impossible to play without getting killed, as the combination of guards and  sprites and large open rooms often would make each other disappear. Either way, it's a chaotic level, not too sure if it's  a good boss level, but it's certainly different from the standard levels. There was definitely a lot of symbolism involved  with Hitler being cornered in what appears to be a toilet compartment.    ABANDON, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL  1 (#32)  Level name: Tunnel  Compiled: October –  November 2004    Continuing from the  latter part of the  previous episode, we  now enter all-in  lab/morgue/hospital territory. When  I  had  made this level originally I was very satisfied. I still remember feeling  I  had finally done something successful in terms of  level making –  but nevertheless, I  have  no idea why I kept the  kitchen utensils sprites. All  pickup items are either canisters  ----------------------- Page 13-----------------------  
or the  Nazi  "biscuits" I made from scratch in  Microsoft Paint myself, "BIX" with the X  being a Swastika. I think the blue  one was the standard and the  red one being the "light" version or something. Either way they were supposed to be  cookies or biscuits, but their cartoony appearance does not sit well with the otherwise old fashioned Wolf 3D look. The  jammed elevator in the  middle of the  level is something  I picked up in The Final Solution.    ABANDON, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 2 (#33)  Level name: Chemic Cargo  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This  level  is quite  large as  it contains  many wide  hallways, a lot of sprites and a sense of stress. We get yet another secret  area with crowns stuffed to excess, and of course the obligatory graphic  bug where  I placed tables with chairs amongst  regular tables, which of course  by then had  been  replaced  by the "radar" tables  making them look silly and very much out  of place.    ABANDON, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 3 (#34)  Level name: Poison Area  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This is pretty much a watered down version of the previous level. I would always run dry when doing conceptual parts  early on. You need to have a head full of ideas or make it short. Having one episode, ten levels, span pretty much one  idea in your first attempt doing a mod just spells out failure.    ABANDON, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 4 (#35)  Level name: Afterwards  Compiled: October –  November 2004    The point of this level did not come through the instant I replaced mutants with Uzi guards. This was another take on  Totengraeber level 13, featuring what was supposed to be mutants in the main area, and regular guards in a secret  area. I still had a long way to go in terms of streamlining decorations, but the seeds of my initial ideas about decorations  were very much planted in this mod.    
ABANDON, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 5 (#36)  Level name: Tunnel  Compiled: October –  November 2004    This is  pretty much j ust a continuation of the  previous  level, though regular guards are featured again. This looks nothing  like a tunnel, though.    ABANDON, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 6 (#37)  Level name: Guardheight  Compiled: October –  November 2004    ----------------------- Page 14-----------------------  
And so we're  back in the  regular laboratory environment yet again. Quite spacious and  not as stuffy as so  many other  levels in this  mod, but still way  below the cut. There's a room before the ending elevator which is filled with ceiling  lights  –  I have no idea why.  I hadn't quite figured out, or remembered, that ceiling  lights were  needed in each  room to create a  sense of reality and a natural balance in terms of decoratio n. I don't think it was until Secrets of  Offenbach or something  that I finally figured it out. The monstrously wide hallway leading to Hans Grosse and the gold key signaled what was to  come with Project Wolfgeist.    ABANDON, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 7 (#38)  Level name: Medlab I  Compiled: October –  November 2004    Hans Grosse times three was supposed to make this level difficult, but in the end it's just a cheap excuse for not wanting to  spend a few minutes putting regular guards in.    ABANDON, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 8 (#39)  Level name: Medlab II  Compiled: October –  November 2004    Obviously levels 7 through 10 were  made  in the same run. All are short and  rushed, filled with cheap ideas giving the  impression that they're  large levels – such are the wide  hallways in this  level, for example. This cheap idea would stick  with me through Project Wolfgeist. The secret area featuring an extra life and the chain gun was most likely added by  Brian, as the few ammo pickups in this level (the bulk of them in a secret area) is nowhere near sufficient to roast the 7  flamethrower guards and vast quantities of SS guards that roam this level.    ABANDON, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 9 (#40)  Level name: Office  Compiled: October –  November 2004    Here is a  level completely bereft of guards; instead you get various ghosts  here and there, mostly  behind items so they  cannot chase you. The only living creature besides the player is Hans Grosse. The level conj ures  up the feeling of a  haunted castle quite well, but it's still very  poor in terms of design. What I wanted to prove here eventually made its  way into All This & Wolf 3D  level 68.    ABANDON, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL  10 (#41)  Level name: Schabbs Office  Compiled: October –  November 2004  Boss level    As with the previous boss level, the ending room could not be viewed properly until the advent of SDL. The  boss was taken  from Operation Panzerschiff and replaces Dr. Schabbs, which sorts of diminishes the name of this level. The manual and  the actual levels never saw eye to eye. I could never keep up the pace, constantly chang ing my mind or forget about  things.  ----------------------- Page 15-----------------------    ABANDON, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL  1 (#42)  Level name: Dungeon  Compiled: November 2004    This  is a very small step up the  ladder – quite a good level, OK excitement for an opening slot; some  respectably placed  ceiling  lights  here and there – all in all quite good. I wanted this to  be a sort of dusty prison  kind of thing, which of course  would  be easier with a sandy re-colored  blue stone. I suppose this is why I replaced the  latter with the former, as I do not  recall playing this with the blue stone. All levels were made chronologically, so if I had anything placed in the earlier levels  utilizing this texture that adhered to the fact that it was a blue texture I was using (e.g. interplay with complimentary  colors), then that was just too bad. This is how I worked back then!    ABANDON, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 2 (#43)  Level name: Tunnel  Compiled: November 2004    Carrying on from the  previous level, this also features a prison atmosphere which  later morphs into a standard  level  using  a hitherto almost unused  blue  brick. I suppose it came from a John  Bucksnort  mod or a wall pack. Had the  blue stone wall  not been  replaced, this level would have been much more streamlined.    ABANDON, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 3 (#44)  Level name: Enter Office  Compiled: November 2004    Apparently I was  keen on this  new find, the  blue  brick wall. And yes, Hans Grosse  makes an appearance yet again. I do  not  remember  how  many, but large  parts of Episode 6 were  made on the same day. I am  not sure whether or not this  level  was the first, but it's either this or the  next one which started a feat on either 7 or 8 levels  made in a row. Looking  back, it  was  ridiculous. I did all these levels as a rush-job type of thing, as I just desperately wanted this mod out there. The secret  area featuring "mutants" and the blood wall from Spear complied with my aspirations of a "mutant hell", but as the Uzi  guard took its place, the meaning fell to the floor.    ABANDON, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 4 (#45)  Level name: Restricted Area  Compiled: November 2004    Looking at this  now, I'm sure this couldn't have taken  more than an  hour. This  must've been afternoon or something, in  keeping with the idea that the majority of this episode was made in one day. As mentioned earlier, I used a computer  stationed in my younger brother's room rather than my own, so of course  I couldn't sit around into the middle of the  night and  make and play my levels.  I think that may have had something to do with the quality of these last few levels.    ABANDON, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 5 (#46)  Level name: Office  ----------------------- Page 16-----------------------  
Compiled: November 2004    The checkerboard texture is  prominently featured in this episode, starting with the  previous  level. Here it continued,  interspersed  briefly with the  more familiar "cornfield" texture featuring that BJ  poster which  I made  myself – the design is  still poor and rushed overall, though there is an interesting multiple-room column area.    ABANDON, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 6 (#47)  Level name: Administration Center  Compiled: November 19, 2004    This is yet another checkerboard "lobby" type of  level, incredibly short and silly, filled with officers and desks. This is the  first of which I am certain was made that Friday evening, before I sent it off to Brian.    ABANDON, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 7 (#48)  Level name: The Dark Secret  Compiled: November 19, 2004    This  level  makes the odd and slightly mismatched transition of office to Hell, as I always  liked the  blood wall from Spear.  The only other instances where  I've used that  particular wall  has  been in themed  levels, as it leaves out a lot of standard  bunker sprites and atmosphere  because of its gory and vicious appearance. It would have worked in Doom or any mod  using  Doom as its inspiration, I think. The  level itself is  not that bad though,  but it  is quite difficult and over-the-top, filled  with "mutants" and some of that  ridiculous radar crap. Again, with original mutants it would have played out better.  These last levels were inspired by the last levels of Armageddon which takes place in a volcano, utilizing the same colored  walls and the same mood. They also share the fact that they are levels 56 through 59, though Armageddon  had seamless  level flow.    ABANDON,  EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 8 (#49)  Level name: Mutant Warfare  Compiled: November 19, 2004    The secret area with the two extra lives is the only area that  really looks good after all these years. I think this is because  it was Brian who added it, as it looks suspiciously like the mercy additions in E2L9 which was equally impossible to beat  without further aid, as little of this was found in the main part of the level. The blood wall indicates an underground, a  cave, a supernatural place or something. It's definitely not meant for square rooms with tables and chairs and domestic  sprites.    ABANDON, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 9  (#50)  Level name: Getaway  Compiled: November  19, 2004    As the  previous level ended in a puddle-filled elevator I had to see what I could do to get that with  me for the start  position of this  level. Of course, I'd added a  puddle j ust in front of the switch, making a similar start  position  placement  ----------------------- Page 17-----------------------  
impossible. So this starts out in the open. With a  brief resurfacing of the checkerboard texture, you're dragged down  cornfield areas with  BJ posters as well as the storage facility texture from Operation Letzterschutz first seen in the  opening  level. With  Friday night winding down, and  my mod almost done, I don't think I spent more than two minutes on  the  next level.    ABANDON, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL  10 (#51)  Level name: ?  Compiled: November 19, 2004  Boss level    And so ends this silly mod.  I mean, it's a given that a first mod  has its ups and downs and embarrassing  mishaps here and  there, but I still feel that this one is particularly embarrassing. What's worse is that I didn't really learn from my mistakes  until well into Secrets of Offenbach and even recently I have also had various insecurities and rush jobs marring my work.  But as for this level being the final level, a boss level, I didn't even include a  proper  boss; I just put Hans in there and  hoped for the  better. So embarrassing!  Even the ending triggers are placed the wrong way!  Before Kyle informed  me on  the subject, I never placed the ending triggers correctly. I had also tinkered with FloEdit, removing some things that I  shouldn't have, resulting in the EXE crashing just before end stats, eliminating cha nces of getting to the High Scores  section. This applies to all episodes.     After making this level, I prepared a zip file and sent it to Brian. I was worried that he  had not  received it, as two weeks  passed before its December 5 release. I am certain that  Brian looked it over, fixing obvious errors and even added sprites  – e.g. the stoves in E1L1 and various dogs and other guards with marching points as well as secret areas with ammo or  health when the gameplay proved impossible due to the almost exclusive usage of skill 1 guards and sometime poor  knowledge of adequate ammo or health presence. Brian always had a big heart for newcomers, he stood up for us and  helped us get  into the  Dome and the community and  made the old guard's  (then) bitter indifference towards  people  like  me, Kyo  Kusanagi (now Richter Belmont) and various others simmer down a little bit. So, to Brian Lowe –  I thank you.    Abandon was released the same weekend as End of Destiny. Talk about timing!    Operation Achtliebe  Released:  December 20, 2004  Compiled: November 20 –  December 11, 2004    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE  1,  LEVEL  1 (#52)  Level name: Purple Infiltration I  Compiled: November 13, 2004    Saturday morning, noon and afternoon was spent finding the graphics and sounds for this  particular mod. I had already  schemed what I wanted to do with this mod as I finished Abandon, which was probably why it was rushed as much as it  was. All graphics and sounds were all in  place by evening time, and  I enjoyed this  new set of graphics as they were closer  to the original Wolf and Spear than those of Abandon. So  by the time  I'd finished off E6L10 for that one, the wheels were  well in spin for this. The storyline was a throwaway, built around the bosses I had downloaded from MajikMonkee's  Image World, again describing the levels in a seamless fashion despite using the original EXE, which Brian edited slightly  ----------------------- Page 18-----------------------  
as he did with that of Abandon .    This was released as a "demo" a month after the first level was made, but as it contained 42 (advertized 40) levels  out of  60 I never myself considered it a demo. It was final, but it was unfinished, something I lost interest in too quickly as  another, more exciting project dawned. But it was a good slate for my level making to progress. It should be mentioned  that I was never satisfied with the levels in Abandon . I never released it, tilted my head back and waited for appraisal.  Trust me, I knew it was crap, even then, but I also knew that the further you progress, the better you get. So in that way I  was glad that I released it and started making a name for myself. However, my initial introduction to other members of  the Wolf community had little to do with my level making.    Around this time, I joined the  DieHard Wolfers' forums. Being new to the concept of online forums at the time, having  underdeveloped English skills and not being that much of a people person to start with, it would take me roughly a year  before I finally found my place and not feeling like  I had to prove anything. The way most people got to know me was via  what seemed an unhealthy obsession with constant level making and discussion of old mods. I was raving about  Totengraeber, Chemical Warfare and mods of that sort just as End of Destiny was being released. It was very bad timing  on my part. I often locked horns with moderators and BrotherTank, had very thin skin and little patience. Over the course  of a year, perhaps a little more, I had grown out of this behavior. Though I can still blow my top every now and again I'll  be the first to admit I was wrong.     Via the forums I found various members' MSN Messenger handles, and added pretty much everybody. I managed to get  in touch with Brian, Kyle, Havoc, Chris, Michael Collin, Dean and many others this way and had many enjoyable chats with  them over the years. In later years I also exchanged e-mails with MCS Amsterdam and Andy.    Operation Achtliebe was  made as I made my entry into the forums and into the conscience of other members of the Wolf  community. Many of the graphics came from The Final Solution v3.0 even though v2.0 was  my favorite edition of that  particular mod. The deep  blue doors and elevator graphics were  lovely,  I thought, but they stick out like a sore thumb  compared to the  rest of the graphics. The guards came from  The Final Solution as well.    Compared to the  previous  mod, this is a pretty fair opening level.  I remember feeling  relieved and excited about this, and  so  I soldiered on to the  next couple of levels. One way or another, the mod was  made quite quickly, as 42 levels were  done by December 20. But the first handful of levels was a joy to make. I really felt I was moving forward.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE  1,  LEVEL 2 (#53)  Level name: Purple Infiltration II  Compiled: November –  December 2004    This  level also  prominently features the  purple  brick, is fair in size and overall a good follow-up to the  previous  level. I can  already now say that I do not remember as  many  levels as well as those from Abandon –  I suppose first and oldest  impressions  last longer. Looking at it now, I can clearly see I wanted to add marching guards but, as the opening room  shows, I still had to learn proper placement of turning points. I was still using MapEdit 4.2 at this point.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE  1,  LEVEL 3 (#54)  Level name: Purple Infiltration III  ----------------------- Page 19-----------------------  
Compiled: November –  December 2004    I view this level as a milestone, because it was the first  level I had a concept of early on which  I actually think I succeeded  with, to a certain extent. Obviously I was inspired  by John  Bucksnort here, with the surrounding columns and the chaos,  but it worked out surprisingly well, and  I remember I  played it several times and felt quite  proud of it. The skeletal idea of  a square-shaped castle with sneak peek columns in all four corners still lives on in  my level making, and  I use the design  every now and then.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE  1,  LEVEL 4 (#55)  Level name: The Quickwalk  Compiled: November –  December 2004    This  level  is a continuation of the cheap, ridiculous idea that a  level spot is  merely a passage  leading you on to better  things.  Now  I've  learned that each and every level has to count in order for the  mod to hold water of any substance. The  idea to  build a  level solely around a maze always seemed  like a cheap  idea to  me, they're easy to  make, just a lot of  narrow  hallways taking an endless amount of time to get through with some sort of surprise finish.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE  1,  LEVEL 5 (#56)  Level name: Bunker  Compiled: November –  December 2004    When  I first started  making levels, I tended to avoid gray stone  levels, because I thought of them as old  hat, boring, and  that  now that  I have  numerous other new, exciting graphics  near me, why should  I waste  my time using those? I regret  that now. I actually like the gray stone, it can go anywhere, it can  be a  beautiful, posh  level with focus on design and  housing  primarily officers or SS guards, or it can  be a drab, dark, mutant-based  level, or it can  be a straight Episode  1  exercise with standard sprites and guards only. This is a mismatch of sorts as the  new esoteric doorways and various  graphics  look out of  place every  now and then. I do  like the area where columns are shielding  nighttime  landscape –  there are two other column sections  behind it, one from a room found  later in the  level and one secret containing  treasure and an extra life. As the whole  idea of floor codes  had yet to get  under my skin, this of course didn't work out  the way I intended. But the seeds were  planted.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE  1,  LEVEL 6 (#57)  Level name: Quickwalk II  Compiled: November –  December 2004    Oddly pairing the Lost  Episodes  pipe texture with the slimy wall from  Totengraeber, this  level never  really gets an  identity. I have no idea why it is so short. I think if I had started out by saying, okay, what this particu lar mod needs are 3  episodes, or 10 levels, or something; if I had set the bar a little lower as to how many levels should appear, maybe I  wouldn't have felt the need to patch things up by having ridiculous, tiny levels squeezed in at random points when my  imagination would run dry. This pattern would repeat itself until Nazi Operation.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE  1,  LEVEL 7 (#58)  ----------------------- Page 20-----------------------  
Level name: Executive Offices I  Compiled: November –  December 2004    The  mellow, brown ceiling color set suitably aside the brown  marble coupled with the whole office feel of this  level gives  this a more  bright and shiny outlook than any other  level I had  made up until then. Even  now it still makes for an overall  OK play. There's also a locked door placed in the  main  level whose  key is found  behind a secret door. This was something  I picked up in  Totengraeber and have used ever since.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE  1,  LEVEL 8 (#59)  Level name: Executive Offices II  Compiled: November 25, 2004    There are way too  many guards  in this  level. The  brown  brick (modified from the familiar purple  brick from Spear) came  from John  Bucksnort. I remember this was done on a Thursday, which at that time was always sort of a drab day to me,  and the coupling of the gray Hitler busts in the secret room made it all very bleak. Sometimes, when I'm not having a  good day, making a level with awful features, e.g. a lot of slime, blood, stoves next to hanging skeletons, ridiculous  difficulty with mutants and so on, just comes naturally.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE  1,  LEVEL 9 (#60)  Level name: Schutzberg Confront  Compiled: November –  December 2004  Boss level    This is a very compressed boss level, but it contains all that a such level needs. The design was probably inspired by  Doom, as the wall I used looks  like something that may have appeared in that particular game, and the design, though  simple, could easily sit well with parallax skies, gun bobbing and a lot of room. As with Abandon, evidenced by the door  behind the boss, whom I took from Operation Panzerschiff and used as my avatar on the DieHard Wolfers' forums for a  brief spell, I was still in dire need of an EXE with seamless level progression.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE  1,  LEVEL  10 (#61)  Level name: Crohnen Lager  Compiled: November –  December 2004  Secret level    I decided  I wanted to use secret levels in this  mod, but sometimes I would forget that they were there or just be  completely blank as to what I wanted in them. This is j ust one  long  narrow hallway filled with crowns, one of which is  inside a wall!  Definitely not worth the  hassle to access which to  me is vital. If the  level is secret, make it count.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL  1 (#62)  Level name: Sewer Infiltrate  Compiled: November –  December 2004    ----------------------- Page 21-----------------------  
In terms of layout, this  level is actually rather decent. I don't know why there are two  blue cave walls from the Lost  Episodes in the opening  room –  I must've mistaken them for something that suited the gray slime walls. The multiple  secret area accessing the secret level is actually quite well done.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 2 (#63)  Level name: Bunker I  Compiled: November –  December 2004    In terms of size, this is quite fair, but again, lack of imagination causes the guard  placement to become quite stale and  boring, and at times even too difficult. There's a room where you  need to defeat several flamethrower guards (replaced  Hitler ghosts) to get a key, which even to  me is way over the top when you  haven't got that much to deal with in the first  place. There is an imaginative use of secret areas here, though.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 3 (#64)  Level name: Bunker II  Compiled: November –  December 2004    This  level was  heavily inspired  by John  Bucksnort – one of many. There's a secret door quite early in the  level  leading to a  treasure  room which is columned off, and the  player will face guards from a room later on in the  level. This  part icular  situation  I must've picked up in  Totengraeber  because  I can't think of any other than  BJ  Rowan who did those things that I  knew of at the time. Either way, it was  my first time using this, and whether or not it worked out well  I'll  leave  up to the  player.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 4 (#65)  Level name: Recidence I  Compiled: November –  December 2004    This  level  has a narrow  hallway lined with floor lamps, something  I got from Ariel and  The Golden Episodes. This particular  hallway also  leads to a secret room (once you get the correct key –  I placed the silver key  in front of a locked door that  uses the golden  key) which is already teased in an entirely different secret area, one  leading to an extra life. While this  sounds promising, the level takes a turn for the worse in getting to the elevator. The lack of a good idea led me to take  the cheapest way out –  making a maze.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 5 (#66)  Level name: Recidence II  Compiled: November –  December 2004    This continues slight hints of something  better to come, and the gray stone interacts quite well with another part of the  level, a gray slab  prison texture that came from an abandoned  mod, Operation: God Hand. I liked this prison texture,  though it was a bit underdeveloped. As with the gray slab textures from Spear Resurrection they make  prison areas  look  entirely different from the  more familiar  blue stone, more  realistic in  my opinion. I added dead SS guards and officers as  sprites on their own to add to the atmosphere, inspired by the random dead guard feature from Totengraeber. The  ----------------------- Page 22-----------------------  
mutants fit in  perfectly with that.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 6 (#67)  Level name: New Inhabited  Compiled: November –  December 2004    It's a delight to see so  many different textures in one  level. The  brown concrete from Spear was an old favorite of mine –  I  remember making a Spear  level  in either September or October that year – not too  long after I made  my very first  level  (which was in September) for Wolf. I suppose the idea from that hung in the air when  I made this. Some clever secret  doors  here and there, a nice  bunker/compound idea near the end – an OK level.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 7 (#68)  Level name: Walkthrough  Compiled: November –  December 2004    After a substantial  level, I suppose  I still had the spark of something  in  me but it fizzled out. I am certain  I wanted this to  be a grandiose, brown  marble office type of level  but I just ran dry  in the  middle of it  and decided to finish it off in a goofy  fashion.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 8 (#69)  Level name: Outer Cavern  Compiled: November –  December 2004    This gray texture  probably came from Doom, but I first encountered it in a Barry Christian  mod. I always connected it with  a town-type of level, using  barrels to create a village  kind of feel, but  it doesn't really show –  I suppose it wasn't until  medEvil came out I felt somebody knew what to do to get a "village"  look in a standard Wolf mod. It's not that bad a  level, the  Hitler bust from Spear Resurrection  is featured with the inscription amateurishly grayed out  by  me in WolfEdit.  There's a texture reading "Übetoten", a mock German word  made  by me. This was  before Google translate, and as I  chose  French as my second language in school (though  I never learned anything, really)  rather than German  I never  understood it  properly until later on. Likewise, "Achtliebe" is a nonsense word, literally meaning "eight love". I did not  know this at the time, I just liked the look of the word.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 9 (#70)  Level name: Meuchelmord á la Juan van Esel  Compiled: November –  December 2004  Boss level    To cap off an otherwise fair episode, I made this cheap and  ridiculous  boss  level. The  boss, Juan van  Esel, a boss from  MajikMonkee's Image World whom the episode is named after, is found alone in a small room surrounded  by kitchen  utensils and a column  blocking an elevator door, another indication of seamless level progression being very much what I  wanted at the time.    ----------------------- Page 23-----------------------  
OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL  10 (#71)  Level name: SS Outpost  Compiled: November –  December 2004  Secret level    The  blue cave texture from the  Lost  Episodes  is something  I  hadn't used before – or since – and so, this  level is  nothing  but an experiment. The texture didn't really go that well with what I  had in  mind at the time. Had I had some  nice, spooky  sprites it could've  been OK, but standard sprites  like desks, plants and tables  have nothing to do in a weird  blue cave  environment. Other than that, it is my first secret level with an actual level in it, however small it may be.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL  1 (#72)  Level name: Tunnel  Compiled: November –  December 2004    It was only when looking up this mod again that I realized that I had ever used the orange/ brown  brick wall from Project  Weltuntergang,  another favorite of mine. It works out quite well in a dungeon/tunnel environment. We  have "animated"  standard  lights in the opening  room, the old trick of replacing  Pac-Man ghosts with these and then guarding them up so  they don't move as the  PacMan ghost actor code  hadn't been  removed. So  I was dying for both seamless  levels and  animated sprites – things  I thought of as a big deal in 2004, and then, mere days  later, End of Dest iny came out and  changed the world –  literally. A few weeks later, Project Wolfgeist was in full spin, which featured both animated sprites  as well as seamless  levels!    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 2 (#73)  Level name: Stone Secrecy  Compiled: November –  December 2004    I  had always wanted to  make a big  level using the gray concrete wall from Spear – also  known as the cobblestone texture.  Chemical Warf are  levels 4 and 28  inspired that, but I did not have the chops  back then to  pull it off, so  I just made it into  a small, haphazard affair. Luckily,  I managed to pull off a good cobblestone level in All This & Wolf 3D.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 3 (#74)  Level name: Placement  Compiled: November –  December 2004    Yet again  I utilized the orange/brown  brick wall –  I have no idea whether I put  it there from the get go or if it was inserted  near the end, as  I have absolutely  no  recollection of ever building a  level with it. Either way, the  level  is OK in terms of  size, and it plays through pretty well –  nothing  majo r though. But this is without question a  big improvement over most of  Abandon.    Around this time, End of Destiny was about to be released, and very much ruled the roost. Quite frankly, it had done for a  while via screenshots and teasers. What I was trying to prove by making my first mods was affection for what I thought of  as obscure mods, as no one knew much of e.g. Dark Dungeon,  Wolfenken, Project Omega etc. and I hoped that other  ----------------------- Page 24-----------------------  
members of the community would mirror these feelings. Eventually they did, but it would take many years before people  wanted to look back, naturally. In 2004, Wolf was still very much in its beginning stage in terms of big projects with  extensive coding compared to what would come in the latter half of the 00's and early '10s. I kept making these levels,  not paying attention to what was going on. In hindsight I'm proud of my stance, but I did come across as a sourpuss and a  bit of a jerk early on as I could not formulate my thoughts into a single stream. After all is said and done, to this day I am  fond of End of Destiny. I am just as fond of the older mods, but of course, they are not "better" than End of Destiny. It was  not so much because I only played older mods... It was more of a jealousy thing, to be honest. In 2004 we all wanted to  make End of Destiny !    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 4 (#75)  Level name: Nazi Hall Area I  Compiled: November –  December 2004    The size of this is  pretty respectable. This  particular red  brick texture  has only been used by me once, in this  mod only. I  liked the  look of it back then, and it fitted in quite well, but I wouldn't even dream of  using it now. I don't know. I've j ust  developed an aversion to it for some  reason. It has  nothing to do with this  level though – the only  big throwaway here  would  be the hallway leading to the elevator.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 5 (#76)  Level name: Nazi Hall Area II  Compiled: November –  December 2004    I never use the north/south facing elevator door. For Operation Achtliebe, I replaced that particular angle with the gray,  slimy door from Totengraeber which looked silly in navy blue door frames. Perhaps the  number of guards  here is a little  over the top, at least compared to the sparseness of sprites in  here. I can't really remember much about making this,  either.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 6 (#77)  Level name: Nazi Hall Area III  Compiled: November –  December 2004    Though this is a bit on the short side, it doesn't matter, because  my personal view of this is that the attention is  mainly on  the slightly cartoony brown stone wall. It doesn't really fit in with anything  in this game, really, so  I'm glad this  level isn't  that large. The opening room is very streamlined, though, and I appreciate the two different colored stained glass  swastika textures.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 7 (#78)  Level name: Dungeon  Compiled: November –  December 2004    The opening  rooms  have structures  reminiscent of what I do today, which is good. There's a fully functioning  marching  guard – which is good too. Sadly, it gets a  bit uneven  near the end, but aside from that, this  is a pretty good  level for its  ----------------------- Page 25-----------------------  
time. I suppose the  resurfacing of the  prison slab wall  may have been inspired  by the then-wholly new End of Dest iny.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 8 (#79)  Level name: Slimytrough  Compiled: November –  December 2004    Balancing the different  brightness of the  blue walls and the green slimy bricks was a bit hard, and in the  long run  I don't  think it worked out. It brings up  memories of Abandon which was j ust a completely random palette with way too  many  colors. Substantially, the design of this level is OK, but the colors  ruin it for me. The  blue cave wall certainly doesn't make  it  better!    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 9 (Originally Wolfenstein 3D, Episode 3,  Level 9)   Level name: Chaingunner  Compiled: November –  December 2004  Boss level    This  level  is j ust awful. All  in all it's just a cheap  rehash of the original E3L9 with too few alterations for it to count as a  level of mine, and the boss is a chain gun guard from  Ben Blaufarb's vaporware  mod Tekkoudan. I am  not proud of this in  any way. The only  positive thing about it is that the ending triggers are facing correctly,  but still there's an elevator door  nearby, which yet again underlines my craving for a seamless level flow.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL  10 (#80)  Level name: Your Favorite  Compiled: November –  December 2004  Secret level    This is j ust another cheap  knockoff filled to the  rafters wit h crowns – definitely one of my poorest efforts.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL  1 (#81)  Level name: Secured Zone  Compiled: November –  December 2004    We  move a tiny baby step up the  ladder  here again, in this quite extensive opening  level which is a big  blue cargo  kind of  level. I don't know – sometimes it's good to  make a  level with a theme already decided upon, other times  not. There  aren't any dogs  in this game either, they were  replaced with what  I saw as a Hitler Youth  kind of guard, a modified  Lost  Episodes guard from Kristallnacht, a  mod  I was  heavily into shortly after I started  playing  mods. This episode is dubbed  "Hitler's  Hell" though Hitler makes no appearance, it's a boss  nicked from Operation Heimzahlung  based on Hitler out of  the mechanic suit. Operation Heimzahlung used a different palette, so  his outfit turns out hot  pink  here. It's amazing what  you thought could get away with when you were starting out.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 2 (#82)  Level name: Parlour  ----------------------- Page 26-----------------------  
Compiled: November –  December 2004    Though it's a bit on the small side and a bit disjointed, it still  holds water, because as mentioned earlier – this  particular  cartoony looking texture is  not meant for major  levels. If I  had to  play a  level  using the 64x64 to its fullest with this as the  only texture  I swear I'd go crazy.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 3 (#83)  Level name: True Blue  Compiled: November –  December 2004    This  level  uses the  bright blue wall texture from  The Final Solution v3.0 together with the gray slab  prison texture. They  do  not interfere that well. I do not remember using the blue stone for this mod, so I must have forgotten I had replaced it  when I made this  particular level.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 4 (#84)  Level name: Tunnel  Compiled: November –  December 2004    All in all this  level is  pretty good. It prominently features a tan  brick wall. I think it originally came from Kristallnacht  but I  could be wrong. I know a similar (and better) looking wall appeared in Operation Letzterschutz and  I suppose that was  more  my catalyst for using it than the former mentioned  mod.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 5 (#85)  Level name: Bunker  Compiled: November –  December 2004    There is a secret door that cannot be opened, treasure inside walls outside of the level, and various sprites over textures  and vice versa. The word "beta testing" did not occur to me until well into  Secrets of Offenbach . I probably  never  noticed the many errors in this level.    OPERATION: ACHTLIEBE, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 6 (#86)  Level name: Torture Camp  Compiled: November –  December 2004    The decoration within the prison area is inexcusable – another flaw is the secret corridor leading to a room filled with  regular guards and  literally nothing else  near the end.    OPERAT ION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 7 (#87)  Level name: The Narrow Beatment  Compiled: November –  December 2004    Here we  have yet another throwaway. The gray concrete wall turned into a long and winding  maze, which plays like a  ----------------------- Page 27-----------------------  
haze of gray mush as the guards' uniforms are as drab as the concrete.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 8 (#88)  Level name: Hitler's Heights I  Compiled: November –  December 2004    There are  numerous  references to other  projects in this  level. First of all the opening  room with the oil barrels guarding  the elevator came from The Tower  by Poet, and the silver key amongst floor lamps came from Chemical Warf are  level 1.  There is also a secret area where you can see a door blocked  by barrels, which comes from  The Final Solution  level  13.  Other than that, it's a pretty large  level, plays rather well and I remember being satisfied with it when I finished it.    OPERATION: ACHTLIEBE, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 9 (#89)  Level name: Hitler's Heights II  Compiled:  December 2004  Boss level    Here we  have yet another unsatisfactory boss  level, this time featuring the  brown concrete texture. I am sure that  by this  time  I had established contact with  Kyle Albert, and  I had been sent the EXE for what would  become Project W olfgeist.  I  was therefore  hooked on this, and so anything  related to Operation Achtliebe was completely irrelevant for me and all I  wanted to do was to get it out of this world, much as this had forced Abandon to  be quickly finished.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL  10 (#90)  Level name: Runaway!  Compiled: December 2004  Secret level    Looking at this now, I have  no idea whether or not it can  be completed without dying. I always wanted a  level, preferably  secret, where  BJ has zero time to think  but j ust has to  run, run and run.  But it got cheap and too vague, and even as a  secret level it's  horrible. But after Kyle Albert entered the  picture with the  neat  EXE  he put together for me for the  nascent Project Wolfgeist, this quickly became yesterday's news.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL  1 (#91)  Level name: Start from the Roots  Compiled: December 2004    Though this episode was listed as not being available, it most certainly was. T he first two  levels were still  playable –  there were  no other  levels made. All in all this  mod counts 42 levels. As  mentioned above, a new  mod dawning took away  all attention from this  mod, and  I tried taking stabs at making levels for this episode,  but I couldn't see the  point. I j ust  finished what I could and sent  it off to  Brian as a so-called demo on  December 20. This  level was  later rehashed in Project   Wolfgeist as  level 26. It's a pretty uninspired maze level.    OPERATION: ACHTL IEBE, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 2 (#92)  ----------------------- Page 28-----------------------  
Level name: Root Beneath  Compiled: December 2004    My final endeavor with Operation Achtliebe ended firmly in the  middle of this. Perhaps this was inspired by Schabbs 2000  level 42 which uses the brown concrete texture extensively, and sharing its level spot with this. Either way, I didn't even  finish it off properly.  I seem to remember I  had  more  rooms  planned, but with a rich, new EXE lying around with tons of  features of which I could only dream the previous week, I just couldn't be bothered with it any more.    Project: Wolfgeist  Released:  February 2, 2005  Compiled: December 11, 2004 –  February 1, 2005    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  1 (#93)  Level name: Wardrobe  Compiled: December 2004    Looking back I am amazed at how fast everything went. Abandon was finished only 3 weeks before this  project was  started, and I had already had a different project going on at the same time! Operation Achtliebe quickly became  uninteresting to me, and I saw no point in finishing it properly. After it had been lying around for a while I got fed up with  it, and sent it to Brian for release on the Dome. It was released December 20, 2004.    Ten days before I had struck up conversation on MSN Messenger with Kyle Albert. He was roughly a year younger than  me, but had already released projects of his own, even featuring his own coding, which was impressive. My English skills  were still poor, but I could nevertheless formulate what I wanted, and Kyle had the time and energy to pull it off. The  same morning I received the EXE I started making levels. I made lab levels on and off. This was the first time I made levels  in random spots rather than going from 1 to 60 chronologically.    Kyle taught me an awful lot. He taught me how to use MapEdit 8.4, which took me a while to get used to, but once I got  the hang of it I enjoyed it immensely. I could now also copy/paste, delete, fill rooms with floor codes, name levels and  customize the MAP- and OBJDATA files which I had not been able to do until then.    End of Destiny had only been out for a week, and Kyle was a huge fan. I was as well, but I could not play Wolf mods in the  same manner as I used to, as the computer I used was not in my room. So there was always a limit, though I don't  remember any hassles in getting to use it. I was just always more comfortable playing mods in  my own room. This was  before I knew what emulators were, so bear in mind that everything I have built or played between September 2004 and  December 2005 took place without digital sounds or music. End of Destiny was one of these. However, my own  computer, which ran Windows XP had some sort of graphics driver glitch or something that made any mod with the  slightest bit of textured floor or ceiling, or worse, both, stop working. The screen would flicker for a second or two, then  turn black, but the EXE still  ran. Trying to explain this issue with poor English skills on the forums would prove futile.    Textured floors and ceilings were indeed featured in Project Wolfgeist, but I asked for sets of textures, e.g. brown stone  floor and gray panel ceiling in levels  1-10, checkered floor and wooden ceiling in levels 11-20 and so on. They did not  compliment my way of making levels, and I have always had issues using them. I suppose my discontent for this feature  ----------------------- Page 29-----------------------  
stems from my bad experience with this mod.    I had seamless levels at last. I had new weapons. I had in-game messages, animated sprites; things that a few days before  seemed impossible. There was even a new enemy included, and it worked! I was in heaven the first couple of weeks, but  it quickly dawned on me that my ideal setting is the original game's layout. That was what I had grown up with, that was  what my favorite mods had used. It took me a while to realize, but when you are just starting out you want to impress as  many people as possible, so this is why I asked for these heavy features. End of Destiny had just been released. I couldn't  be trying to plug Operation Panzerschiff or some hopelessly aged mod of the same sort. I needed to reach those who  were playing Wolf in 2004. Nostalgia had not yet set in.    As an opening, I suppose this was appropriate –  light, large and introductory to the  many faces of this  mod (including the  lab areas which  I had  longed to  make for many months) but it still lacks in overall quality and fastidiousness. As an  opening level it's quite messy, but the idea of starting in a locker room still seems quite solid for me, together with the  obvious prison breaks or starting in front of columns and landscape.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 2 (#94)  Level name: Main  Hall  Compiled: December 2004    This  level saw my wet Totengraeber dreams coming to life, I thought. Thanks to the floor texture, it feels  like a lobby, a  large  hall, something spacious and  refreshing from drab old Abandon and Operation Achtliebe – it's  hard to explain how  delighted (and thankful) I felt to be able to  make levels in this  lovely environment. Inspiration came in  heaps, though only  briefly,  but it was surely a joy to make these first levels.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 3 (#95)  Level name: Wehrmacht Planet  Compiled: December 2004    The level itself is all  right, but the title is  misleading. There are  no Wehrmacht guards in this  mod – the  replacement  guards either come from Assault on Castle Totenhammer, Coming of t he Storm, the  Lost  Episodes and Kristallnacht.  Compared to what I could have dug  up, the officer sprite was an incredibly poor choice. Asides from the mutant, which I  rightfully kept, all guards were based on the Lost Episodes.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 4 (#96)  Level name: Getouttahere !  Compiled: December 2004    There are a lot of guards in this  level, but in terms of texture and diversity it's way too one-sided. The  multi-colored  red  brick texture is  meant to be  placed  randomly between ordinary red  bricks –  not meant to be a texture on its own, in my  opinion. The silver key is placed in a secret  laboratory, which is all  right, I guess. I don't know  how widely used  multiple  textured floors and ceilings were in 2004 and if Kyle was able to do it or not (I think he was, anyway) –  but the smooth tile  ceiling and  brown stone floor do  not sit well with anything  related to  laboratories. I remember Kyle thinking it odd that I  requested so little variation in floors and ceilings, as they only change for every 10 levels.  ----------------------- Page 30-----------------------    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 5 (#97)  Level name: Leaved Lab  Compiled: December 2004    My aspirations with the  level itself were  probably  big, but the output was  poor, disjointed and way too short. Also,  landscape textures and  laboratories are a bad combo. Abandoned laboratories, however, are still very much an idea  I like  to pursue every now and then.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 6 (#98)  Level name: Lock 'n' Load!  Compiled: December 2004    I have  no idea where this  blue texture comes from –  I think it was a wall  pack or something. It only  had one shade, which  sat well with  my idea for this  mod anyway, as many  projects with textured floors and ceilings only  had one-shaded walls,  along with the custom that no objects or guards cast shadows. Looking at it  now, I don't think it interferes that well at all  with the floor and ceiling.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 7 (#99)  Level name: Freundschaft  Compiled: December 2004    This is another one that does  not compliment the ceiling/floor textures that well. A  modified  purple stone, here in a  bright blue sheen, supposedly some sort of cave. Again, my storylines would wander off as I either forgot about them or  had little patience to follow certain themes. I have no idea how, from a slightly realistic  point of view, a cave would  be on  the seventh floor of a castle or whatever. I was j ust on a roll when  I made these levels. I was so enthralled with the  new  features that the  levels around them  became redundant and j ust something that had to  be done, rather than a well  thought out idea. Though "Freundschaft"  means friendship in German, I don't think I knew that at the time. I just  liked  the  look and the sound of the word.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 8 (#100)  Level name: Quickwalk  Compiled: December 2004    I liked the  look of the  Episode 5 blue wall from  The Lost Episodes.  I remember I played a lot of Sandy's add-ons at this  time – Sandy released a bunch of  projects which stole  pretty much anything from Wolf Skevos-Jones. However, the levels  were a guilty pleasure for me – so small, concise, and direct. I am  not sure whether or not Sandy's  levels  had influenced  me here, but they probably did. All  I remember is the days up to and including  New Year's Eve 2004 I played several  projects of his  like  mad. While this  particular level is small, it's  not very concise or direct, really. It's j ust another bad  excuse to  move on to the  latter part in the mod.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 9 (#101)  ----------------------- Page 31-----------------------  
Level name: Storage  Compiled: December 2004    Ever since  playing Operation Letzterschutz  I always wanted to  make a  level taking  place in a storage facility. I think I was  too eager when I made this level, it is way too large compared to what I was nearly capable of in those days. The long,  succession-based secret door in the opening room was fun for me, though. Picking up the missile launcher and running  around with it in your own mod was tremendous. The music in this level is "Control Deck 17", an original MIDI composed  by Chris Chokan. I first came across this in Chemical Warfare, and eventually found it for download on Chris' Chokage site  along with many other MIDI's. However, as I mentioned before, emulators were unknown to me, and for the first 16  months of me making levels and playing mods starting in late summer 2004 were spent without digitized sounds and  music. I would eventually overkill usage of the tune in Nazi Operation.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  10 (#102)  Level name: Schwarzsicht  Compiled: December 2004  Boss level    Compared to  my previous  boss  levels, this  is actually  rather good as it has something close enough to an actual  level  around it rather than j ust an overtly decorated, colossal room with a boss  randomly placed in it. I can also see that this  was where  my short obsession with  humongous  hallways began –  I took this from Wolf Skevos-Jones. But he  made them  look the  part, whereas  I just made levels  based around the  hallways as the only thing, not thinking about the aesthetics,  so it could  be 8 squares wide facing  north, 6 facing south, and so on.  I was obviously not ready for something of this  caliber, but I nevertheless threw myself into it on a whim.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  11 (#103)  Level name: Farmmler Entry  Compiled: December 2004    From level 11 onward the textured floor and ceiling consists of checkerboard and wooden boards, respectively. I liked the  slightly contrasting look of this at the time, b ut soon after releasing it, I did not care for it. This  level uses the  Lost  Episodes  blue wall, so it comes across as disjointed together with wooden ceiling and checkered floor. This  level is the  first of a number of  levels in an area where  mutants  have the  power. I took this from levels  13-18 of  Totengraeber and  pretty much any storyline  I may have worked out through time always has a mutant-only part. It's j ust a familiar place for  me. The elephant-sized  hallways continue on. I was playing Sandy's mods on repeat around this time.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  12 (#104)  Level name: Mutant Charge  Compiled: December 2004    This is  basically just a continuation of the  previous  level, with grand  hallways, toilets and landscape textures and a load of  random sprites. The re-colored brown stone, here with a slightly different pattern and an "arctic" sheen was taken from  The Golden Episodes.  ----------------------- Page 32-----------------------    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  13 (#105)  Level name: Complexes  Compiled: December 2004    This is  probably one of the  better  levels from this  mod. In terms of size it's acceptable, in diversity it is j ust as good. The  dirty brick texture came from  The Final Solution and it was also used in Dark Dungeon, which is  probably where  I picked it  up in the first place. The  library part was something  I  had always wanted to do. This came into full fruition on  level 15.  This ends in a long, titanic  hallway like so  many other  levels  in this  mod, which is a shame.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  14 (#106)  Level name: Leaved Castle  Compiled: December 2004    As "abandoned" could not fit  I had to call it "leaved" which makes no sense in its given situation. The level itself isn't that  exciting, way too small. The idea of using gray stone #3 came from  Totengraeber  level  14. Otherwise,  I would not really  use that particular texture at all  until way into Nazi Operation.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  15 (#107)  Level name: Lost in Library  Compiled: December 31, 2004    I had this obsession with a library-only level, and  now  I had the  right environment to make it  in. The concept is  pretty  good, but it doesn't really hold water – anymore. I was still keen on this well after it had  been  released, but I think  I made  up for it in  my submission to the  Map of the Month Contest in September 2007, Facing Hell, which contained a major  library section.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  16 (#108)  Level name: Stretch Pursuit  Compiled: December 31, 2004    I wanted to create a sort-of "timed" challenge where you run down a narrow hallway, shooting as many mutants as you  can. The design is very poor if not non-existent, and the secret areas are not at all secret, as they stick out like a sore  thumb in the maze-like, spiral environment.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  17 (#109)  Level name: Prison  Compiled: January 2005    In terms of design, for me, this is a first. Whenever I make  prison  levels  now, I use 3x3 cells, but I hadn't done up until this  point – and  I don't think I did for some time after. I wanted to  make the  prison door graphic  look realistic, so  I made these  ----------------------- Page 33-----------------------  
large cells. Like so  many other things, that idea came from Dark Dungeon as well. So all things considered, this  level is all  right. Compared to where I was in January 2005, what I would have achieved and be able to work with by December 2005  seemed impossible.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  18 (#110)  Level name: Runaway  Compiled: January 2005    This  level  is silly and disjointed. I was obviously inspired  by Chemical  Warf are  level 29 in terms of a wacky level popping  up in the  middle of everything. The steel  panel  makes for an excellent  "cage" overall, but there are so  many redundant  features, like the 4 secret doors which cannot be opened simultaneously, making  100 % secrets  impossible. The  boss  from level 10 pops up again, and as with Abandon  I still believe that Hans Grosse is the only boss that  may appear out of  his environment. Perhaps I had forgotten I had replaced Grosse with the unfamiliar Schwarzsicht.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL  19 (#111)  Level  name: Desolate It All  Compiled: January 2005    As soon as I got hold of Kyle, and chatted with  him for hours on end on  MSN, I wanted to  hear how  Operation  Todpf ad  and Operation Elimination were coming along. I used to surf the  news archives  like  mad in those days, so  I pretty much  knew each and every mod that had ever been announced, let alone  released. So via this, I coaxed Kyle to  rework and  eventually release Operation  Todpf ad. He was probably going there anyway, but I was very persistent, perhaps a bit too  much. I sometimes refered to it as Gretel's Castle which it was originally announced as.  He  had already sent me a beta  version in  December 2004, and  my jaw dropped. He kept saying  he wasn't really good at making levels, but they were  terrific. I got so jea lous about this.  I was cranking out one shitty level after another, and here was this golden palace of  levels that just sat there in obscurity, literally, at the time. I suppose that was the catalyst behind this level  having wood  panels, as Operation  Todpf ad  level 2 had wood  panels and  I just fell in  love with that particular level, which in time would  also  heavily influence All This &  Wolf 3D  level 6. The stupid ending hallway aside, this  level is okay. It is still way below  par, but nevertheless playable.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 20 (#112)  Level name: Kill the Mehrer  Compiled: January 2005  Boss level    We're  back to substandard boss  levels again. The enemy placement looks  like it didn't take  more than a minute, the rest  of the level is more or less non-existent, and the boss is a re-colored Submarine Willie, renamed  "Mehrerkrutengehlingeguhrer" or something  insane  like that. I got this from MajikMonkee's Image World.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 21 (Originally Wolfenstein 3D, Episode  1,  Level 1)  Level name: Abandoned…    ----------------------- Page 34-----------------------  
I tried to write an  "archeological" storyline to fit with the fact that  my creative j uices were  running  low – and probably  had  been for a while. In a mere two  months  I  had made over 100 levels. That's a lot! Whether or not they were any good,  they were still levels that I spent time on, sat  me down to do. So  I nicked this  level, spiced it up to  look like  how the old  E1L1 would  look like if BJ was to go  back. But as no original textures survive, the meaning gets lost. The  presence of  textured floors and ceilings only adds insult to injury.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 22 (#113)  Level name: Archaeological  Compiled: January 2005    I did not play Return to Castle  Wolfenstein  until summer 2005, so  I didn't know about the archeological aspects of that  mod when  I did this. I was, however, a big fan of  Coming of t he Storm and  I am certain that the inspiration came from  there. But this  is j ust downright silly – checkerboard floors in a cave? It was around this time I came to regret the fact  that I had requested textured floors and ceilings. In this particular level's instance, standard floors and ceil ings would be  more than enough.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 23 (#114)  Level name: Old Castle  Compiled: January 2005    I cannot think of any old castles that  may have had  bright blue  brick walls. It is a pretty  large  level, all things considered,  but without any heart whatsoever.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 24 (#115)  Level name: Tod !  Compiled: January 2005    This  particular level was actually  made as an attempt to create a  map set for Spear, something that never really took hold  for me until late 2011. I ran dry and got fed up with Spear's limitations, so  I changed a little  here and there and added it to  this  project instead. It's compact and intense, and j udging  by most  levels in this  mod it's  probably one of the  best ones  here – even though it was not conceived as part of it. This underlined the fact that I thrived better in a simple  environment.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 25 (#116)  Level name:  Enemy Epidemic  Compiled: January –  February 2005    It's all  right, I guess, but  it's still very substandard compared to what I had at my disposal. Animated objects, even. I  never  did these features any justice. This  particular  level is all neat and shiny, but the same textured floor and ceiling does get  tedious after a while as it most definitely does  not fit each and every wall there is.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 26 (Originally Operation: Achtliebe, Episode 5,  Level 1)  ----------------------- Page 35-----------------------  
Level  name: Steel Labyrinth  Compiled: December 2004    This was taken from Operation Achtliebe  E5L1 as that episode was  marked as not being available while still being  available.  I added some throwaway bits, but nothing  majo r. So this was a cheap way to fill up  level slots.  I had already  tinkered witha number of lab  levels – so it was all about patching  up for me, really. Fatigue had set in here for real. I  quickly realized that the original Wolf environment was the way to go for me.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 27 (#117)  Level name: The Mystery  Compiled: January 2005    I was the world's  biggest Chokage fan. I felt it went places that  no  mod ever did or  have done since.  It took original Wolf  and added a bizarre and unique cartoony twist that  nobody's ever  been able to  replicate. I always wanted some wacky,  out of the  box kind of  level in one of my mods, which finally came from the author behind Chokage  himself, Chris, in the  now-legendary All This &  Wolf 3D level 69. Until that got made, I had a stab at making  pseudo-weird  levels  myself, with  this  being one of the first. It simply does not work with all the advanced coding, the textured floors and ceilings and all  that stuff. It looks like a test level of sorts, or if you add more than 60 levels and warp to level 64 or something –  a level  outside the level. The fact that level spot 27 took this up was because of Chemical Warfare level 27, which was odd in a  way, but still had an actual level around it. I also wrote "Rimmer" in the level just like  Chemical Warfare, though I still  don't know what it means.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 28 (#118)  Level name: Port Pottsweig  Compiled: January 2005    I distinctly remember this being the level where it all fizzled out for me. I kept having folders with different projects to  start, and had struck up conversation on MSN Messenger with a guy known as Flamer46 who would provide me with  an embryonic Secrets of Offenbach . As is tradition with all the Possum mods, a new project stole the light from the old  one. I wanted to finish this mod as quickly as I could and get it out there, at any cost. That said, there is an actual level   here, but the colossal hallway says it all.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 29 (#119)  Level name: Big Complex  Compiled: January 2005    I was coming off the rails here, just trying to build something grandiose here, a bunker residential area of sorts, though  my interest in this project was dying. Just like my previous two mods, this consisted of roughly three weeks or a month of  fun and excitement, followed by one or two weeks of slowing down and eventually getting fed up with it, eventually  succumbing to releasing the project without having tested it properly, without looking back and reevaluating some of its  strengths and weaknesses and so on. In three months, I had released three projects, all of which I was never that proud  of. Looking back in a self-analytical way, I still cannot figure out why I blatantly kept releasing substandard mods, as I  ----------------------- Page 36-----------------------  
knew and felt that these levels were not worth playing, even then. My heart was also rooted strictly in original Wolf,  something I concluded after working with projects that did little to retain the original sprites and textures .    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 30 (#120)  Level name: Goal Goering !  Compiled: January 2005  Boss level    Being desperate to finish this mod off and get on with what was to become Secrets of Offenbach,  I shortened the storyline  and added a boss level two level spots after the previous boss level. As Spear did a similar thing with the Ubermutant in  level 16 and the Death Knight in level 18 I didn't give it more thought, but perhaps I should have. This is truly a terrible  level.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 31 (#121)  Level name: Lab  Entry  Compiled: December 2004 – January 2005    Ever since  playing Operation Heimzahlung, Project  Eisenritter and Castle Totenkopf  in  late 2003 when  I first started  getting  into mods, I always wanted to  make  lab  levels. I always did. Whenever I got bored at school  I'd write storylines,  level guides, sketch out castles and in which spots the  labs should  be. I remember I always wanted  120 floors, but this all  stems from the autism and the fascination of numbers. The general atmosphere of labs  hung  heavily in the air even  before  I got the  EXE. I knew exactly what I wanted to do with these, so  levels 31-34 were done with determination  rather than  j ust slacking off. The  lab  levels were done intermittently  between the early castle  levels and in early January 2005. This  never sat well with me, but I learned to work with making levels non-seamlessly from level 1 to 60 in that order, which  was healthy. Lab areas would often require extra coding, such as e.g. the scientist guard, and a similar workflow w ith  making lab levels for themselves were also used in All This & Wolf 3D, NovoWolf and Wolf Overkill. This particular level  borrows a lot from Wolf Skevos-Jones but also BJ Rowan. I am still not too fond of the present nighttime landscape  texture. I think  laboratories should be sealed off from the rest of the world in order to make a claustrophobic, exciting  gameplay.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 32 (#122)  Level name: Guards Aboard  Compiled: December 2004 – January 2005    The floor and ceiling textures for the  laboratories were done  by me, or rather, I just took and copied various  patches of  the white  lab  panel from  The Lost Episodes and additions from Project Eisenritter and the "asylum" wall from  Totengraeber and it worked out average. Nothing  here  looked as oddly out of place as so  many earlier castle  levels do.  I  enjoyed  making the  lab  levels, and  playing them was a blast. It's a shame it didn't last that long –  looking at Operation  Achtliebe, for example, it seemed that my level making was improving  near the end, but so  many levels in this particular  project just seemed a return to infancy. I am surprised at seeing how many marching guards actually worked.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 33 (#123)  ----------------------- Page 37----------------------- 
 Level name: Medlab  Compiled: December 2004 – January 2005    This is the first lab  level that drifts off course, as there's a small  but vital  part  behind green oil drums – an  Episode  1-like  scene with gray stone, a stove and a dead guard –  kind of ridiculous. I was obviously dying to get back to original Wolf,  before all the  madness with the graphics, the sounds, the coding, everything. Worst of all, I feel I let  Kyle Albert down for  doing this, but I was j ust so insecure with which way I should go with making levels. I tried my best to get into the End of  Destiny "school", but I knew that I could never do it justice.  Eventually I chose correctly in taking on the original  atmosphere and  keeping it low-key ever since Secrets of Off enbach and  later when Nazi Operation took hold.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 34 (#124)  Level name: Muted Hall  Compiled: January 2005    A selection of this level retains t he original maze from E4L4 with small additions. This was a very  poor move from my side,  but I was obviously running out of ideas here.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 35 (#125)  Level name: SS Krieger  Compiled: January 31/February 1, 2005  Boss level    After a couple of days without doing anything for this mod, I took a final stab at finishing  levels for this  project as quickly  as I could. So  I dug up some ancient boss sprite, padded out the  level  blindly and  hoped for the  best.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 36 (#126)  Level name: The Wolfgeist  Compiled: January 31/February 1, 2005  Boss level    So this ends with the final  boss from Project  Eisenritter  morphing into an Ubermutant/Hitler crossover from Project  Weltuntergang, which ultimately ends the game. Of course, as I never  played this, or didn't care, I thought  he dropped a  gold  key,  leading to an elevator, but at this point, I j ust didn't care. I'd do anything to finish anyt hing off, and it ended the  cheapest, most deplorable way. I regret making this mod more the most of all my projects. To this day, I still wish to go  back and do a proper mod with advanced coding, but I will plan it more thoroughly and aim for a more realistic approach,  for example not going for 60 levels as a start. I think that was a vital part in me feeling out of energy making this mod.  Had this mod only had 20 or 25 levels, there may have been more substance and better flow. But when you just start out,  you feel naive and full of energy, and 60 levels seem very much possible.    PROJECT : WOLFGEIST,  LEVEL 37 (Originally the  Final Solution,  Level 1)  Level name: TFS Backwards    ----------------------- Page 38-----------------------  
I loved  The Final Solution and I always try to pay as much homage to it as I can. This wasn't playable due to the previous  level's  boss  having a death cam scene, but apparently I had forgotten this fact when I made this level. Apparently Dr.  Schabbs is in there somewhere as  he  never had his  much deserved showdown. And yes, the ending triggers face the  wrong way, which is, again, a return to infancy.  I still think this is the worst mod  I ever made.  I didn't even change the  sprites after porting this level, evidenced by the toilets  next to the tables in one room. And  Brian, bless  his  heart, asked if  those  particular sprite pairings were a new  Nazi idea !    Abandon 2: Purgatory !  Released  March 23, 2005  Compiled:  February –  March 21/22, 2005    ABANDON 2: PURGATORY !,  LEVE L  1 (#127)  Level name: Cabins I  Compiled: February –  March 2005    To set the  record straight : By January 2005, I  had started quite a few projects.  Uber Deutschland which got canceled,  something called Schabbs 7000 (released in  May 2006 and later withdrawn) which was an embryonic incarnation of this –  an EXE made by Havoc featuring gray ceilings on all  levels, and various features which were used in Secrets of Off enbach –  and a variety of other loose beginnings. Something  I thought I  had to  mention was the EXE that I actually coded  myself  around this time. It was sort of a gap between  Uber Deutschland and this. I remember a folder entitled "Giftkrieg" though  I am not sure if that was the name of this project. Anyway, I was  never a coder, but somehow  I managed to get the  EXE to  work. Guards got tougher, the scores got funnier numbers, and  I even  managed to  make the  level  name show on the "Get  Psyched !" screen. However, something happened along the way causing the guards to walk  backwards,  have random  noises  playing, which  I thought was  hysterical. But  I canceled it along the way and deleted everything. One  level was  made, a brown weave kind of thing.  I do not recall any more. I so wish I had kept it.    In mid-January, I had struck up conversation with Flamer46 on MSN Messenger, a newcomer to the DieHard Wolfers'  forums, who had sufficient coding skills. We talked about features and what would be the coolest thing to have in a Wolf  mod. He was very much enthralled by End of Destiny which I can only understand, being a coder. He sent me an EXE  which worked wonders, however, the 2 additional guards I wanted did not work properly. These were the so-called  Japanese guards from MajikMonkee's Image World. The project was in these days dubbed  Projekt Amerika and used a  storyline similar to that of one of my favorite books, The Man in the High Castle, but when the project was conceived I  knew nothing of it. I just liked the Japanese guards and the title of the mod, and tried to build up a storyline of sorts  though I was terrible at it. Sometime after, this was about the time I did my best to seal off Project Wolfgeist and get on  with this project instead, I received an instant message from Flamer46's user, which turned out to be his brother who  informed me that Flamer46 was in the hospital and would not be able to work with me anymore. Whether or not this  was true, or if it was indeed Flamer46 writing and not wanting to do any more wolfing (he left the community shortly  after) I never found out. Nevertheless, I got to talk with Havoc, whom I had added (along with any other Wolf member,  whether I knew them or not) on my MSN Messenger account. We got talking, and me craving only what was to him banal  features, an EXE got made rather quickly.    But as for Abandon 2: Purgatory! – it came out well before Secrets of Off enbach, though it was  not thought up until mid- February or so. As with so  many other short-lived  projects of mine it received a premature  release, utilizing then- ----------------------- Page 39-----------------------  
unreleased levels from Secrets of Off enbach,  instantly ruining the entire surprise of my slightly improved  level making.  Between  March and July my skills improved vastly,  but due to a backup error, the only levels  released from Secrets of  Offenbach were all  relics from February and March, already released here, and  I do not consider my levels salvaged  (or  play-worthy) until the demo  release of Nazi Operation  in August 2005. This level is  pretty good. The entire EXE  is actually  that of Countdown to Disaster, a mod  by Gary Ragland which I never  played in full until I beta tested the SDL  release  years later. The only reason  I used it was that he  had  left the  MapEdit data files  behind, so it was an easy  pick. This was  also  my first experience with the wall variation #1/wall variation #2 decoration, something  I've used ever since. The level  itself is  not a great improvement over then-recent affairs, but it's still  pretty good. I have no idea why I re-utilized the  gray guard from The Final Solution.  It was, and is,  not fashionable and I had used it already in Operation Achtliebe.    Just like Countdown to Disaster, I managed to find the MapEdit data files for Operation Panzerschiff. I even announced  the mod with a screenshot after having made the first level, but it was instantly frowned upon by BrotherTank. In  hindsight I think he encouraged me to do something more original, but I was very offended back then, and quite typical, I  deleted the project entirely, which was a shame, as I remember the level as being rather good. Nevertheless, it was now  February, and within the space of 4 months I had released 3 mods and started 9 different projects, so in that respect it  was maybe much needed of me to discard something.    ABANDON 2: PURGATORY !,  LEVE L 2 (#128)  Level name: Cabins II  Compiled: February –  March 2005    The opening  room is quite good, and this  level is  proof that my level making skills were excelling, and got  more  room to  do so in a more original setting. I didn't feel  I had to  make up for anything  in a more original environment, I suppose. The  daytime landscape  hadn't been  used in any mod of mine until this, so that was  refreshing as well. There are a couple of  bugs, though (including one with a key), which is a pity. The selection of sprites, evidenced by the armor suit, chandelier  and others signals a rustic castle environment. After the overcompensation of Project Wolfgeist this felt refreshing.    ABANDON 2: PURGATORY !,  LEVE L 3 (#129)  Level name: The Lounge  Compiled: February –  March 2005    I probably did have major aspirations with this  mod, but I just could not take it slow. I had to get something out there,  and fast. I had to prove something for myself. So this  level was a rush job, the  remaining levels were tagged on from  Secrets of Off enbach which was on  hold at the time  because of this  mod, and it got released in the  middle of March. It  was  received quite well compared to what it was, but I regretted  releasing it shortly after.  I was  planning on  revising  numerous  levels in Secrets of Off enbach.  During the summer of 2005 I re-made a lot of levels, mainly early ones, as well  as levels  19-40. So  I suppose, in a way, if things  had turned out like they should have,  Purgatory could  have stood on its  own as the Offenbach  levels were either removed from the original Offenbach or re-made in such a fashion that they  couldn't  be  recognized. But sadly that wasn't to  be.    ABANDON 2: PURGATORY !,  LEVE L 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 &  15  Compiled: February –  March 2005    ----------------------- Page 40-----------------------  
Though these were first released in this mod, they were compiled for Secrets of Offenbach and as such, they are noted  there.    ABANDON 2: PURGATORY !,  LEVE L  13 (Originally Totengraeber,  Level 13)  As  Totengraeber  level  13 was a big favorite of mine and a huge inspiration, I thought I'd j ust as well  nick it. I gave  BJ  Rowan credit, and some  people actually thought it was a new  level constructed  by BJ for this  mod alone!    ABANDON 2: PURGATORY !,  LEVE L  14 (#130)  Level name: Final  Compiled: March 2005  Boss level    This is yet another rushed  boss  level made for the sole  purpose of finishing this mod and sending it out there.  I never  contacted Gary on using his mod or anything, and I feel terrible for doing so.    Secrets of Offenbach  Released: July 28, 2005  Compiled: February 4 – July 26, 2005    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL  1 (#131)  Level name: Remmisch I  Compiled: February 3, 2005    Secrets of Off enbach took off in earnest in  February, though the title was tinkered with (as  mentioned earlier) a couple of  times. This opening level was  not the first level made for it, as witnessed in Schabbs 7000.  But  I made it and  played it  through and  I liked it a lot. The windscreen wiper truck animation I particularly liked, and going back to teal doors was  also good for me. Along with a number of other early  levels, it was  redone in July 2005 but this was  never  backed up and  therefore  lost. I still think the released  product of Secrets of Off enbach  is  misrepresentative – some of my better  levels of  this mod and of this time were  never released as they got lost. On top of that,  most of the  remaining  levels  had already  seen  release in Abandon 2: P urgatory!.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL 2 (#132)  Level name: Remmisch II  Compiled: February 4, 2005    I was thoroughly enjoying  making  levels for this  mod  back then. This was j ust after I had gotten all  needed files to work  on  my own computer, so I could stay up for longer hours and get better ideas flowing. This  level  is one of the  better early  ones, but I also  remember this  being  remade in a much  more smooth and elegant fashion, which  never saw the  light of  day. One of the most amateurish things about this  mod, though, is the fact that the scientists  replace the  mutants, and so  there are  no  mutants to guard or keep in the  laboratories. Perhaps this was coded into the  EXE  later, but as  I mentioned  earlier, all work on this project from April through July is forever lost and  I have  no detailed  memory of what happened in  those  months whatsoever, sadly. This was recast as secret level 20 in Gex ' Spear Levels Pack, a community set assembled  ----------------------- Page 41-----------------------  
between 2004 and 2005 which was  released September 25, 2005.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL 3 (#133)  Level name: Remmisch III  Compiled: February 6, 2005    This was  made on a cozy Sunday evening with the TV going, and  me enjoying  making  levels in a traditional  blue prison.  Until this  point I hadn't made, officially anyway, an old fashioned  blue stone prison  level. The following week was winter  break, so  I didn't  have to worry about bedtime. Those were the days. This was also one of my contributions to the Gex '  Spear Levels Pack which was  released on September 25, 2005.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL 4 (#134)  Level name: Remmisch IV  Compiled: February 2005    As noted, the released version of this consisted mainly of backup files from March, with the exception of the VSWAP  which was more recent. I had added some new sprites by then, and if there's the odd  machinery, kitchen utensils or  whatever in unorthodox  places, it's simply because  I hadn't cleaned up the levels that I managed to  release. I do  not  remember making this  level, but it's the first of many true castle  levels  I made, and so it deserves an  honorable  mention.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL 5 (#135)  Level name: Remmisch V  Compiled: February 2005    The opening  room was inspired  by various scenes from  Coming of  the Storm and the excavation levels therein. There's  also a reference to  E6L5,  but other than that it's a pretty standard level, nothing  majo r but definitely a step up the  ladder  from  previous efforts  like Project Wolfgeist and Abandon. This was also one of my contributions to the Gex ' Spear Levels  Pack which was  released on September 25, 2005.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL 6 (#136)  Level name: Remmisch VI  Compiled: February 2005    The texture used in this level comes from an old  mod called  Western  Wall which is also where the scientist comes from.  The  key pickup in the "battlefield" was inspired  by episode 3 of Project W eltuntergang.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL 7 (Originally Wolfenstein 3D, Episode  1,  Level 9)  Level name: Remmisch VII  Boss level    All in all this is j ust E1L9 with a lot of cheap ideas around it. This was most likely made in the aftermath of the levels that  got lost.  ----------------------- Page 42-----------------------    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL 8 (#137)  Level name: Infiltration I  Compiled: February 2005    In some wall  pack I found this variation entitled "gray stone #4" which  looks way too fragmented. It does  not flow as well  as the other textures. The level structure itself  is  pretty refreshing, rather large, an early sign of things to come. The  ceiling color is way too  bright though. In those days, it was  Havoc who assigned ceiling colors to  me. This was  before  I  knew "9f" and "6f", in  my mind they were "dark  blue" and "dark green". Obviously, Havoc only selected ceiling colors  from the first row of the color chart, making for very mundane colors without any depth.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL 9 (#138)  Level name: Infiltration II  Compiled: February 2005    What I remember most about this  particular  level was that I remade it in July into something bigger and more extensive.  This does obviously not show  here. It's a bit too  messy and over-decorated in  places, but I'm glad to see  I was  experimenting with ceiling  light placement in those days. I was obviously progressing from the  horrors of previous  levels.  This was also one of my contributions to the Gex ' Spear Levels Pack which was  released on September 25, 2005.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL  10 (#139)  Level name: Main Bunkers I  Compiled: February –  March 2005    Overall, this is a  pretty good level. It's mainly a big gray  brick compound of sorts including a library. However, the  new  gray brick/library texture is quite patchy –  I  put it together myself. The large area shortly before the ending elevator was  inspired by Conflict in the Fatherland E4L1.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL  11 (#140)  Level name: Main Bunkers II  Compiled: February –  March 2005    Apparently, I hadn't learned from my mistakes. This level is just another maze, but with the bulk of the levels made for  this mod being lost, this level spot may have contained an actual level at some point.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL  12 (#141)  Level name: Main Bunkers III  Compiled: February 2005    What I remember the  most about this  level was that I was  begging  Havoc for an end  level trigger – an object that just  finishes the  level rather than having to go to an elevator. Either  he did  not understand  me or was  not capable to do so –  I  believe the former as my English skills were still far from what they are today. The exit was  meant to  be an "epic  ----------------------- Page 43-----------------------  
gateway" of sorts to the  next level.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL  13 (#142)  Level name: Toxin Refinery  Compiled: February 2005    The  reason why I wanted an end  level trigger  in the previous  level was that it was supposed to open a large  lab  level,  which was placed outside the main lab area which was designated for levels 40-49. Well, here it is. Clearly this is  my first  good  lab level. I was absolutely t hrilled when  I made it. Even for now it's quite good, as it introduces designs that I hadn't  used up until then – one of the  best  in the  mod. This was later re-done to be even better. The level name came from  Doom. Eventually I would borrow the music from that level, Dark Halls, in later projects.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL  14 (Originally Shankenstein, Episode 2,  Level 4)  Level name: Much Stuff I    I have no idea what the  purpose was to  put this  level  into this  mod. I had  never played Shankenstein, I just knew of it, and  sneaked it out of it to use  here –  I suspect it was after I lost all  my recent  levels that I just decided to  patch it up in a  pathetic  manner.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL  15 (#143)  Level name: Much Stuff II  Compiled: February 25, 2005    This was originally made for yet another stab at a Spear map set. This was  level 1. It was a big cargo with truck rears,  barrels, water puddles –  I remember it  being very atmospheric. It was also chaotic, as I was still learning to understand  the concept of floor codes  better and better, so it also  became truly difficult, but still fun. I was  really  happy when  I  finished it and played it through. It had to  be tagged on to Secrets of Off enbach – otherwise it would've  probably  been  deleted or forgotten. Shortly after I finished this, I took my first break from making levels which  lasted almost a month. I  did  bits and  pieces for Abandon 2:  Purgatory! and  released it  near the end of that month  but I did not make a new  level  until April 1. This was the first time since September 2004 that more than one day passed where  I did  not do anything  Wolf-related, which was healthy.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL  16 (#144)  Level name: Much Stuff III  Compiled: April 1, 2005    I remember  listening to  live radio as I made this  level on a Friday night, springtime around the corner. It was  lovely. I  wanted to get back up on the Wolf horse and do a classic type  level. And  I  really did. To  me, this is a landmark – it has  much smoother design and better ideas, and its size is  much  larger and  more thorough. I made it out of the blue, and  by  the time it was done, I realized it  had 440 static objects. Every detail mattered to  me, so when having to empty the  last  couple of rooms before the elevator, it dawned on  me that my future  level making would, in order for me to grow,  depend on an  EXE able to  handle more than 399 objects – also  because in  mid-2005, it was embarrassing to  be a slave to  the original game's  limitations. It was shortly after this that Chris Chokan sent me an  EXE which could  handle the insane  ----------------------- Page 44-----------------------  
amount of 999 objects and 249 guards. Out of this came All This &  Wolf 3D.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL  17 (#145)  Level name: Griffin Office Level  Compiled: April 2005  Boss level    I do  not know the genesis of this  particular  level, nor the odd name. There's a gold  key boss  near the end, a more suave  Trans Grosse replacing Hans. It begins in a room with  nothing  but columns which could imply that it had  been  made for a  map set which originally had  landscape  behind the columns, but I could be wrong about this.  Either way, it was a silly  addition to this  mod.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL  18 (#146)  Level name: Zumzeig I  Compiled: April 2005    I am not in doubt that this level is in fact unfinished, evidenced by the silver key locked door that leads nowhere. It was  probably finished off in  May, June or July as with so  many other  levels but never backed up and as such this is the only  surviving  part. Sadly this is the  last functional  level for this  mod, which saw  me finally progressing  up the final step of the  ladder, even if the levels proving this were never released. The  pink ceiling came from Chris'  Weird33. I remember Havoc  gave me a lot of flak for using it ! I would utilize unorthodox ceiling colors here and there for the first time, as I was  hooked on Schabbs 2000 over the spring and summer of 2005.    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH,  LEVEL 51 (#147)  Level name: Secret I  Compiled: February 2005  Secret level    I remember trying to create a secret level immediately after the  level it was accessed from,  level 3.  But my imagination  ran dry. As  I never got on with it,  it just got released this way. Schabbs 7000  has a slightly different secret level, but I think  that was  made  before this came along. It would take me a long time before appreciating, and being capable of pulling off  secret levels in a proper fashion.    Though this mod came out rather short and disjointed, the 20-something levels that got lost were important to me. They  gave me the chops and strength to continue making levels, and continue to use the original game's atmosphere rather  than stealing graphics from various, often obscure places. It was after this sad affair that I started to use backup, finally  figuring out how to do it properly. At the time, the loss was incalculable for me and I did consider never making levels  again. I came to my senses, though – a few hours later!    Nazi Operation  Released: January 1, 2006  Compiled: July 29 –  December 21, 2005  ----------------------- Page 45-----------------------    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  1 (#148)  Level name: Entrance I  Compiled: August –  December 2005    Though I felt shattered after losing numerous levels for Secrets of Offenbach, I felt I had to move on. So  I soldiered on and  made a handful of levels, released as a 4-level demo in early August. I immediately felt that this was the way to go for me  – using even more original graphics than the previous mod. Making levels always came first for me. While starting this  mod during August and September, I had another mod in the works for which I deleted everything, which I regret. There  were a handful of good levels, some odd sounds I found in an obscure mod which I forgot the name of, and a re-colored  Lost Episodes SS guard, courtesy of Wolf Skevos-Jones. I don't know what caused me to delete this project, but for the  first time, I felt I needed to focus on one project at a time, and started making levels for this mod. During July, Chris sent  me the EXE to what would become All This & Wolf 3D.  I must have taught myself a lot of discipline, as I didn't bother with  it until this mod was nearly finished. In its finishing stages, I also learned how to use VDMSound, and for the first time  since spring 2004 I could finally  hear Wolf music and digitized sounds. So the last three days were spent finding music I  had long waited to hear, including numerous The Golden Episodes tunes and various others, including "Control Deck 17".    The bulk of the coding was done by Michael Coll in, also known as Dr. Chainsaw, with whom I was very friendly on MSN  Messenger. We tossed ideas back and forth, and he came with suggestions as well, e.g. the demo sign being replaced  with a sprite, which I didn't think could be done. He was a bit of a joker, and sometimes I wouldn't always understand the  irony, but all in all I had a blast talking to him. By the end of this project, though, Havoc took over due to Michael having  limited time.    After making the 4 demo levels which were eventually scattered a round the mod, the first level I did was what would  become level 34. I think I made this opening level way after this, probably inspired by Assassinate Hitler . It was my first  tough opening level that demands thought and skill. I was heavily into Gary Ragland at this time, over the spring and  summer I had reacquainted myself with Schabbs 2000 and Assassinate Hitler which I had only played half-assed up until  that point.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 2 (#149)  Level name: Entrance II  Compiled: August –  December 2005    I had  not created  many levels using the  brown weave texture until this came out. I suppose there's some of Assassinate  Hitler level 6 in there, it's all Gary Ragland. Gary himself didn't use the  brown weave in Schabbs 2000 –  but he did use it in  Assassinate Hitler. The  mixture of mutants, SS guards, regular guards and officers in the same  levels was also something  I  picked up from Gary. It was obvious that my level ideas would thrive better  in an original Wolf environment, even if it  took me roughly a year to realize this.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 3 (#150)  Level name: Entrance III  Compiled: July 29, 2005  ----------------------- Page 46-----------------------    This was the first level I made after the Secrets of Offenbach debacle. I enjoyed making it, and I likewise also enjoyed  playing it, which was a first. Though I enjoyed playing some of my earliest levels, I stopped enjoying them as the novelty  wore off. I assigned the level "When Johnny Comes  Marching  Home", a traditional song used heavily during WWII (I was  unaware of this fact at the time) from an obscure mod  named Fuchsenstein.  I always liked the organ sound and found it a  cozy kind of tune, not knowing it was an actual song –  I thought it was either  homemade or came from a different video  game.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 4 (#151)  Level name: Entrance IV  Compiled: August 4, 2005    This is another early one, which also featured in the demo as level 2. There are  ridiculously many secret doors  here as  well, one of which access an area where the player can peek into what is supposed to be level 51, the first secret  level.  Michael Collin volunteered to do the coding for this project via a thread on the DieHard Wolfers' forums. He was a good,  fast and  reliable coder. He  had a wicked sense of humor and we used to  have hilarious MSN Messenger chats. When  he  realized  he couldn't take the  EXE any further, the task went to Havoc who  put the  EXE in the direction  I wanted it to. But  until then, Michael did a very good job and it was a pleasure working with  him. I always was a fan of his wacky  projects,  and what got to me the  most was the fact that  his  levels were  pretty good compared to what one could expect. Some  levels in Castle Hasselhoff  are j ust magnificent and in  return inspired  me.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 5 (#152)  Level name: Entrance V  Compiled: July 30, 2005    This appeared as  level 3  in the demo version. I made it after the first  level (level 3 in the full version) around midnight. For  this level I did something  I hadn't done  before –  I just made a structure there and then. I didn't think of anything before  I  sat down to do it, other than  I wanted a  purple stone  level, as I'd never done one of those  before  properly – it feels larger  than it actually is – actually  it's  horizontal and only occupies about one third of the 64x64 –  but the  idea of it being  large  though it isn't was something  I took directly from Gary Ragland. I got shocked when  I finally got to see the overview  levels  of Schabbs 2000 in  mid-2006. They looked so tiny but felt enormous.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 6 (#153)  Level name: Tunnel  Compiled: August –  December 2005    Obviously this was influenced by  Totengraeber, though having a mutant-only level so early on was/is unusual for me.  Also, this level mainly uses the  red  brick texture, though it  had  been prominent two  levels  before. I wouldn't do that now  – unless it's a concept, I tend to  keep  levels with similar walls as far apart as  possible to create diversity and excitement. I  was obviously still  learning  my trade in terms of ceiling  lights, but this is  pretty large  in size and an obvious  bold step up  the  ladder for me. The tune came from  The Golden Episodes and is also featured in the  menu.  Its  bubbling  intensity  always made  me connect it with a laboratory  level, but I selected tunes at random as I was excited about being able to  ----------------------- Page 47-----------------------  
hear music again.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 7 (#154)  Level name: Castle Part One I  Compiled: August – October 2005    I don't know what initially inspired this  level. I don't know if I had yet acquainted  myself with  Laz  Rojas (I remember I got  into  his WolfenDOOM add-ons sometime  in 2005 or early 2006)  but I sense there's a touch of his work in there. The fact  that BJ starts where guards are  marching  indicate that this is something  I've  never tried  before – the gold  key pickup in  the gray slime compound was also new to  me. Obviously I was experimenting, and there are some designs in here which  indicates this was made early in the process, but it's still a world removed from Project Wolfgeist and Abandon .    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 8 (#155)  Level name: Castle Part One II  Compiled: September 2005    All of a sudden  I decided  I wanted to try making a shareware  map set. Eventually I dug up the  MapEdit data files and  found a version of MapEdit old enough to  handle  it, and  made what became this  level. This explains the high  concentration of regular guards and  not too  many sprites. In the end  I decided it was too silly and dropped the idea  altogether and incorporated the  level  into Nazi Operation  instead. The tune's origin  I'm not sure of,  but I first  encountered it in  The Final Solution  level 17. I always found it was a perfect suspense tune, an obvious choice for the  penultimate level, and  I've used it frequently since in equal situations, but as this  is  level 8,  nowhere  near a boss or a final  level of any kind, it does not fit in that well at all.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 9 (#156)  Level name: Castle Part One III  Compiled: August –  December 2005    I was  playing Chemical Warf are again by the time  I did this  level. I suppose this explains the variations in textures – from  blue stone over wood  panel to  brown  marble, with a touch of gray stone to  red  brick to steel  panel – obviously I was  experimenting with ceiling colors and how far you can take them. I always felt the dark blue ceiling  played well with  brown/reddish textures. This is quite a good  level though. My only regret is  probably using the cow carcass as a standard  prison sprite.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  10 (#157)  Level name: Castle Part One IV  Compiled: August – September 2005    Though I find this level enjoyable, I am still slightly embarrassed about rehashin g section from the original E2L7 and  E6L7. I suppose I did this out of desperation, as I was still struggling to make proper purple stone levels at this point of a  larger size.    ----------------------- Page 48-----------------------  
NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  11 (#158)  Level name: Castle Part One V  Compiled: August –  December 2005    Apart from my very first pre-Abandon  levels and one or two levels in the batch of the lost Secrets of Offenbach  levels, I had  never really toyed with the  brown stone texture  before. I absolutely loved episode 6,  but I never felt I connected with it  as much as I did with the  blue stone, gray stone/slime stone, red brick and so forth.  I wasn't that much of a level maker  yet to  master so  many different styles. That was about to change. Via this and into All This & Wolf 3D, the  brown stone  (also known as sandstone or canyon)  became one of my favorite textures to use. This  level is a tad chaotic, but its size  is  respectable, and there are some  pretty good and  more detailed than before secret areas  in there too.  I am  not sure  where the tune came from. I remember I downloaded it at a site that had  numerous  MIDI files, and  I think this was called  "Doom 64". It's only in  my later years  I managed to  read about and find out about Sega,  Nintendo and all that. I  never  played any of it as a kid, we didn't own any consoles, I had no interest in them – and so, listening to tunes such as this  from neutral ground made me view it as a piece of music rather than something that came from a specific atmosphere.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  12 (#159)  Level name: Castle Part One VI  Compiled: August –  December 2005  Boss level    As a boss  level this is inspired by  The Final Solution  level 5,  but what annoys me the  most now is that there's a  big, fat bug  in there – the eagle  behind the silver key should actually  be a secret door, but I forgot to place it there, so the extra life it  leads to cannot be obtained. Whether or  not this was intended (as  my overview  level signature is in the extra life room)  I  don't know, but it still makes  100 % treasure impossible, but I suppose it went  unnoticed as boss  levels  have no end  level  stats.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  13 (#160)  Level name: Castle Part Two I  Compiled: August –  December 2005    Now that I finally had the chops to  make a decent  level, as well as seamless  level flow, I could finally make  my own proper  level  13 which  I  had dreamt of ever since  playing  Totengraeber  level 13 for the very first time. The  influence of that is, like  so  many others of my  levels, a defining factor here. It's a difficult  level, lots of mutants, slime walls, bringing to  mind  more  Episode 2 than  Totengraeber,  perhaps. Sadly I'm reminded of Project  Wolfgeist when  I look at the  monstrous  wooden  hallway,  but it's still a respectable level.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  14 (#161)  Level name: Castle Part Two II  Compiled: August –  December 2005    The stone wall from Spear really makes this  level. It would  later become one of my  most frequently used textures, as it  can  be used for most anything. It's sort of  like the original gray stone. It can fit in any atmosphere you want it to.  In terms  ----------------------- Page 49-----------------------  
of size, it's also quite  respectable, and the whole  mutant-only feel is  retained quite well here. The inspiration from two of  my favorite add-ons, Totengraeber and Schabbs 2000 is quite clear here.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  15 (#162)  Level name: Castle Part Two III  Compiled: August – September 2005    I believe  Nazi Operation was one of my first (and  probably only) experiences with  placing levels in  random slots and j ust  start building them from there. I remember when this was done there were  no  levels  14 or 16. I suppose it was all in a  number for me. The  level itself is  pretty  nice, one of my first gray brick complexes that actually worked. And as  Totengraeber  never had a mutant-only level with the gray brick texture in  prominence, I thought it a little more original  than other levels of its time. I'm especially proud of the opening  room. I would experiment with spirals  later on,  eventually culminating in the  latter levels of All This & Wolf 3D.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  16 (#163)  Level name: Castle Part Two IV  Compiled: September 16, 2005    This  level originally used a dark gray stone texture, which was a re-coloring of the  blue stone from the  Lost  Episodes.  When I wanted to use the Spear stone wall instead, the texture had to go. Apparently I was not a ware of the fact that  regardless of the EXE, it was possible to add 14 new wall tiles. Either way,  it was assigned level slot 28 when  I originally  made it. I must have changed it to fit with the storyline as these  levels were  mutant-only  levels, so there  may have  been  "actual" guards in this  level. The dark grayness of this level was intriguing, and though gray and black are drab colors,  somehow they open up numerous opportunities in level making. Why Queen's  "Another One  Bites the  Dust" was the  assigned tune was simply because  I  had always wanted to  hear it in a Wolf mod. Sadly, as I was an amateur and  IMFCreator couldn't quite  handle this  rather large  MIDI file, it  has some  blips  here and there, but it's still listenable. This  was also one of my contributions to the Gex ' Spear Levels Pack which was  released on September 25, 2005.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  17 (#164)  Level name: Castle Part Two V  Compiled: August –  December 2005    Having landscape immediately behind columns was lifted from Gary Ragland. Up until then,  I'd used a wide space  between whatever object it might be and the  landscape texture. The  rest of the  level was a mix  between ideas from both  Gary as well as BJ Rowan. It's a subtle,  little  level which  may  be a tad on the difficult side due to the  mutant-only "policy".    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  18 (#165)  Level name: Castle Part Two VI  Compiled: August –  December 2005    Havoc, who tested this over Christmas, said this was  his favorite level, praising its dark and  mystic dynamic.  He was  never  a fan of huge  levels, for starters, nor was  he a fan of  projects with  more than 20 or 30 levels in them. So  he wasn't exactly  ----------------------- Page 50-----------------------  
having a field day testing, but he did his job quite well in addition to the flawless coding. There is a wide  hallway which  I  regret,  but other than that it's a nice little mutant level which craves a lot of ammo and concentration.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL  19  Level name: Schabbs' Labs I    This  level was  made  by Loki. The tune was "Control Deck 17" from  Chemical Warf are, an old favorite of mine. I enjoyed  the level. Loki used a style which was entirely different from mine, but  I liked it  nevertheless.  It's  much  more subtle and  old school.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 20 (#166)  Level name: Schabbs' Labs II  Compiled: August –  December 2005    I had  never really gotten  myself into Spear Resurrection and AReyeP's design ideas in general until around this time. I  remember when  I first played Spear Resurrection  in the summer/fall of 2003 I got stuck in  level 10 with the whole secret  passage decable with the standard light you can actually shoot at. This  level takes a lot of inspiration from AReyeP in the  usage of floor lamps and some of the trickery  in  here. The gold  key can easily be  blocked as there's a flawed (it's  impossible to get a full 100 %  ratio if you want the  key – which you  need) secret door section that needs to be tampered  with first. The mutants still reign supreme.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 21 (#167)  Level name: Schabbs' Labs III  Compiled: August – September 2005     Obviously the  main catalyst behind this was, again, Schabbs 2000. We have a part where the  nuclear barrel is prominent  in a wood  panel area. Looking  back, those two graphical atmospheres don't sit that well with each other, but  back then  I  liked it as I  had seen similar things  in Schabbs 2000. This  has a nice secret area with officers and treasure and its overall  size is satisfying.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 22 (#168)  Level name: Schabbs' Labs IV  Compiled: August –  December 2005  Boss level    This  level could have  been  better. I'm not proud of the  ridiculous  mutant-only maze, as this would  have driven  me crazy  personally as a player. I'm also  not sure if there's enough ammo compared to this  being a heavily guarded boss  level.  Apparently I was still struggling with boss levels.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 23 (#169)  Level name: The Bridge I  Compiled: August –  December 2005  ----------------------- Page 51-----------------------    This is a neat, little Schabbs 2000  pastiche. I suppose its subtleness  has a point –  it was  really j ust a gateway to the next  level, which was a cave level. Again, it's easy to see j ust how  much  I wanted an end  level object. The elevator should've  been a locked door and  BJ should've j ust vanished into it. But eit her Havoc or Michael Collin did  not understand  me or  perhaps it was  beyond their ability –  I doubt Havoc was not able to  make it, as Absence was on its way at this time, but I  guess you can't have everything.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 24 (#170)  Level name: The Bridge II  Compiled: August 1/2, 2005    This appeared as the final level in the demo. I made the entrance a  bit longer for its appearance  here in the full version, in  keeping with the cave entry atmosphere  I tried to create. I suppose it's a pretty healthy  level, I was still new to the  brown  weave, but it contains some  nice secret door trickery including a secret passage to the gold  key, something  I picked up in  Schabbs 2000 level 5.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 25 (#171)  Level name: Castle Part Three I  Compiled: August –  December 2005    The softwood  partition is another wall texture I hadn't gotten that much into  before  I did this  mod. I always saw it as a  mellow, simple Episode  1 kind of texture  but it came to  be used in  numerous situations, including offices in All This &  Wolf 3D. I was also steadily improving in terms of guard  placement.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 26 (#172)  Level name: Castle Part Three II  Compiled: August –  December 2005    I do  not remember much about  making this, let alone when. It's a rather large level, though, and  I was obviously enjoying  utilizing the Spear stone wall in a manner  it deserved –  I always envisioned it as the  main texture of a titanic castle.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 27 (#173)  Level name: Castle Part Three IV  Compiled: August –  December 2005    The reason for this level being a huge, overwrought, ridiculous maze without any imagination whatsoever was because I  at that time viewed The Golden Episodes E2L7 and Projekt Vertilgung level 6 as respectable maze levels. This was not a  rush job, as evidenced by the differing blue stone variations. Nevertheless, maze-only levels should not be tolerated!    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 28 (#174)  Level name: Castle Part Three V  Compiled: August –  December 2005  ----------------------- Page 52-----------------------    I haven't got the faintest idea why this  level is  littered with crowns. Perhaps it was started as a secret level or something –  I don't remember. What I do remember was that it was one of the first levels  I did with the  Episode 5 blue wall texture  that made sense. Together with the brown stone it was one of the original textures which  I just did not see eye to eye  with early on in terms of design, ideas and inspiration.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 29 (Originally Wolfenstein 3D, Episode  1,  Level 9)  Level name: Castle Part Three VI   Boss level    Yes, apparently I was still too lazy or lacked imagination to make a proper boss level. I did my best to either space boss  levels as far apart as possible, or only have one or two bosses spread across 30 or sometimes 60 levels later on. You  must understand, I was coming from Schabbs 2000, Totengraeber  and early Barry Christian stuff, which had 40+ levels  but only enough boss levels to count on one hand.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 30 (#175)  Level name: Hitler's Führerbunker I  Compiled: August –  December 2005    I liked the  head-on excitement the  moment you start this  level, as  if there's  no  place to  hide. I made it as fair as I could,  though. Tough opening  rooms were always a guilty  pleasure of mine, even though they can  be a pain if you're  not ready  for them. Assassinate Hitler  level 14 may have played its  part here. Other than that, I can see that there are  Hitler ghosts  in this  level as well. I was experimenting with those after having  replaced them with flamethrower guards in every other  mod until this one. I kind of missed their goofiness and the fact that they are  pretty good if you  run out of guard  placement ideas.  But in case of realism  and whether or not they have a  place outside  Episode 3 or any mod without the  actual Hitler in it as well I'm still  not sure. There are times  I like to use them and times that the very idea of them makes  me shake  my  head in disagreement.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 31 (#176)  Level name: Hitler's Führerbunker II  Compiled: August –  December 2005    I remember this was done on a Sunday. I never liked Sundays. I could always brighten them up a little bit by making a  level, which  I did in this  instance. I see the  Hitler ghosts are  here again. I suppose  my excuse to use them was that  Hitler  was in fact the next boss.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 32 (#177)  Level name: Hitler's Führerbunker III  Compiled: August – October 2005    I remember this originally had gray stone #3 in it as well, but somehow  I removed those in the end in order to make room  for the checkerboard texture, which I regret now . Again, I was unaware of the fact that I could've easily added new wall  ----------------------- Page 53-----------------------  
textures without having to code it in. I like the  mellow gray ceiling color rather than the standard dark gray one,  something  I  picked up in Operation Letzterschutz. There's a nice, large secret area  here – overall this is  pretty good in  terms of design and excitement. This is  probably one of the  best of this  mod. I remember being particularly satisfied with  it when it first came out.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 33 (#178)  Level name: Hitler's Führerbunker IV  Compiled: August – September 2005    This was made early on in the process. I was still finding  my feet in the  brown stone environment. This was also one of my  contributions to the Gex ' Spear Levels Pack which was  released on September 25, 2005.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 34 (#179)  Level name: Hitler's Führerbunker V  Compiled: August 5, 2005    After the demo  had  been  released on August 5,  I decided to continue  making  levels. I went to level slot 34 (because  I  liked the number –  probably Schabbs 2000  level 34 was an inspiration too, as its ceiling color was the same shade of blue  as this) and  began work on this  level – one of my earliest with the Episode 5 blue wall  prominent. We've got various  marching guards and a lot of objects but not too many. Things were picking up for me then. T he gray brick part played  well with the  blue ceiling color – something  I picked up in Schabbs 2000  level 41.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 35 (#180)  Level name: Hitler's Führerbunker VI  Compiled: August –  December 2005    I envisioned this as  being an intense, confusing, large  bunker  unit  meant as a housing area for guards. Unfortunately, as  I  was a bit paranoid about the pairing of locked doors and guards  running  may  make  keys  redundant,  each room got its  own separate floor code, and it instead feels  like a deserted or boring  hotel. It's okay in terms of design but  it could  have  been  much better, action-wise. This was probably influenced by Schabbs 2000  level 37, The Nazi Lodge.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 36 (#181)  Level name: Hitler's Führerbunker VII  Compiled: August –  December 2005    I like the ceiling color. Some would call it  bronze, others cheddar, some  might even call it vomit –  I j ust felt  it suited the  brown stone texture, so there you  have  it. After Dean came on the scene and used it heavily  I also started to use it in  connection with the  brown  marble texture – quite frankly,  I think it works  rather well with that. I don't think it  interferes  that well with the gray brick, however. A  bright and summery orange/gray brick concoction would  later be seen in All This  &  Wolf 3D   level 8. This level features the landscape texture used in a manner similar to that of  Operation Achtliebe  level  5, which is a bit odd, but apparently it did not disturb the gameplay, so I just thought to hell with it.    ----------------------- Page 54-----------------------  
NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 37 (#182)  Level name: Hitler's Führerbunker VIII  Compiled: September 23, 2005    I remember I enjoyed  making this  level rather much. I was  learning  my trade making prison levels, still – the cells are  placed in odd spaces, we even  have a suit of armor guarding  landscape  rather than columns and yet again the cow  carcass  resurfaces –  I think I liked it at the time as I had not previously used it.  In years to come, blue stone  prison levels  would  be easy for me to make and  most of the time  I would enjoy doing so.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 38 (#183)  Level name: Hitler's Führerbunker IX  Compiled: September 23, 2005    There's a cheapness  here, I'm not afraid to say it. I suppose  I was on a roll from the  previous  level (they were  made on the  same day) and wanted to  recreate that atmosphere here yet again. Obviously I'd forgotten the fact that this  level  contained a secret elevator, so I tagged it on near the end without  really giving the player anything difficult to do to get  there –  not a clever move.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 39 (#184)  Level name: Hitler's Führerbunker X  Compiled: August –  December 2005  Boss level    In all fairness, the original boss  levels  had secret doors in them which  really made them easier to  play. I could not imagine  running around  E6L9, for example, without having opened the secret door right  next to the starting  point. I suppose  I  wanted the  player to do the same  here.  However, having 6 Hitler ghosts in one  room was a silly idea. I would  never do  that now. Though there are ammo  boxes and health nearby I don't know if it's enough – especially as you're subject to  heavy mutant fire from behind columns in the silver key room.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 40 (#185)  Level name: Giftmacher's Match I  Compiled: October –  December 2005    Obviously the toilet in one of the first rooms was  placed  by mistake. It should've  been either a sink or a well of some sort.  This does  not change the fact that I see this as  probably my first great lab level (not counting those that got lost from  Secrets of  Offenbach) – Schabbs 2000  hung  heavy  in the air, judging from the checkerboard texture and the teal ceiling.  Chemical Warf are  played its part as well, judging  by the tune, "Control Deck 17" yet again. There are some good secret  door ideas in here, an intense atmosphere and the level is overall a fun  play.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 41 (#186)  Level name: Giftmacher's Match II  Compiled: October 15, 2005  ----------------------- Page 55-----------------------    This  level was  made while on a roll in  my autumn  break. Gary Ragland was the catalyst, yet again. I'd never have dreamed  of making a  lab environment in a gray stone setting. But somehow, I think it worked. I was  really thoroughly enjoying  making levels at this  point. There was  nothing  better and  more fun – though I still get a spark when I make levels, they  are a far cry from how I felt while making these.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 42 (#187)  Level name: Giftmacher's Match III  Compiled: October –  December 2005    Much as the  previous level took an unorthodox stab at a lab environment in gray stone surroundings, this used the Spear  stone wall instead. Again, this is a rather unfitting texture to use alongside puddles of waste and nuclear barrels, but I  believe it still holds water.  My only regret here is that there is no major struggle in order to get to the secret level.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 43 (#188)  Level name: Giftmacher's Match IV  Compiled: October –  December 2005    Though the checkerboard  had already been used in  level 40,  I still think it was put to good use here. Due to my worship  of Schabbs 2000  I always viewed it as being acceptable to use in a nuclear/waste puddle environment.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 44 (#189)  Level name: Giftmacher's Match V  Compiled: October –  December 2005    Inspired by Poet, I made a square in the middle of the 64x64 slate, and started playing around, and eventually it became an  utterly playable level. I was surprised at how well it turned out as I had (and still have to a degree) difficulty when not  having the entire 64x64 to play around in.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 45 (#190)  Level name: Giftmacher's Match VI  Compiled: October –  December 2005  Boss level    Though this is a bit on the short side, it's still a respectable  boss  level. I like the silver key cheat trick.     NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 46 (#191)  Level name: Wilhelm's Warehouse I  Compiled: August –  December 2005    I think The Road to Neuschwanstein was an influence on this level –  I remember it used a lot of softwood/column imagery  as well. I also think that's where the  large  portion of oil drums idea came from. There is a secret door oddity  here  like the  ----------------------- Page 56-----------------------  
treasure  room accessed  by silver  key – either I wanted the secret doors to  move 4 squares  rather than 3 or else  I was j ust  fiddling around.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 47 (#192)  Level name: Wilhelm's Warehouse II  Compiled: August –  December 2005    This was inspired  by two things – The Nazi Lodge from Schabbs 2000 (just as level 35) and an old idea I first had when  I  first started making levels in September 2004 – a large  kitchen/ bed/sink area, a domestic quarter of sorts for the guards.  Though there is a large  room in this one (which  brings up past fears  like Project  Wolfgeist) and the odd cell  here and  there, the idea still comes through.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 48 (#193)  Level name: Wilhelm's Warehouse III  Compiled: August –  December 2005    There are  heaps of secret doors  here – whether or not that's a good thing  I'll  leave up to the  player. The closer you get to  the final  level, I feel it's in its  place to  make things tougher and stretch everything out.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 49  Level name: Wilhelm's Warehouse IV    This was  Loki's second contribution. By this time, I'd  begun sowing the seeds for what would become All This &  Wolf 3D  and so, my interest in this mod began to wane. However, I did it j ustice  by instead of releasing it with empty level spots,  asked around to see  if anybody out there would  be interested in contributing the final  levels  I needed. Most of them  were secret levels as  I was  never good at those. The  levels  I received were all rock solid, even though the majority of them  were placed in secret level spots without necessarily bearing a secret level influence (e.g. a lot of crowns and odd features)  – that said, 10 secret levels were far too many for me. It should have been 50 seamless levels with 5 secret levels, totaling  55. Nevertheless, I was satisfied with the outcome of this mod and strongly appreciated Loki, WLHack and ack's levels.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 50 (#194)  Level name: Wilhelm's Warehouse V  Compiled: August –  December 2005  Boss level    I suppose  I was  running out of ideas for  boss  levels. In the future,  I would do  my best to avoid  many boss  levels in one  mod – something that didn't really take hold until Castle Assault – this  level is  probably (along with  levels 27 and 29)  my  only regret of this  mod. It should have had a better ending. I was  never that into Spear, but I always thought that the  Barnacle Wilhelm boss  hadn't been used enough in other projects, so  I decided to use  him as the  main villain  here. After  all is said and done, this level ended  my first good mod, I loved every minute of it and  I was so  happy that the community  also appreciated it and it  moved  me one giant leap up the ladder.    ----------------------- Page 57-----------------------  
NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 51 (#195)  Level name: Secret I  Compiled: August –  December 2005  Secret level    I made this  level early on, I suppose –  I think  it was  my first secret level which  had an actual  level around it, rather than  silly amounts of treasure and a handful of randomly placed guards and a substantial size.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 52  Level name: Secret II  Secret level    WLHack came to  my rescue in  December when  I wanted to wrap this  baby up and get it out there as All This &  Wolf 3D  took all my attention, and I had little or no ideas to secret levels. This  particular level took my breath away. I had  no idea  he was capable of making such concise, old school  levels. I knew  he had something going for himself in terms of coding  and graphics, but making levels also happened to be another skill of his. Some of his  levels actually inspired  me to  make  some  more scaled-down work for All This &  Wolf 3D  here and there. They carry that understated yet still difficult and  unconscious grandiosity about them that I always wanted to  replicate in  my  levels.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 53 (#196)  Level name: Secret III  Compiled: December 2005  Secret level    Originally Chris was scheduled to  make this  level. As  I was very determined to have Nazi Operation out before January 1  more than anything  in the world, apparently, and Chris' laid-back and unpredictable and aloof behavior never did see eye  to eye with my approach, I made this level sometime  in  December and used it as secret level 53. Compared to what could  have happened this is an okay level.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVELS 54  Level name: Secret IV  Secret level    WLHack did this  level for me –  I was still amazed that  he could  pull off such great  levels  in such a short time. All he got  was a ceiling color, and off he went ! I particularly liked the E5L4 vibe of this one.    NAZI OPERATION, LEVEL 55  Level name: Secret V  Secret level    This is another WLHack level, here using the Spear stone wall and brown marble. I particularly like the bathroom area,  which was very much what I was going for in terms of design.    ----------------------- Page 58-----------------------  
NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 56 (#197)  Level name: Secret VI  Compiled: October –  December 2005  Secret level    This was done immediately after  level 42 from which it was accessed. When making mods with secret levels, I do my best  to make the levels in this order so that the secret level won't end up  being something that just has to  be done  near the  end. There's an awful  lot of treasure  here, but it is a secret level after all and so it's acceptable – also, the fact that this  had an actual  level and décor around it made it for me. I was getting into floor lamps here, something  I probably took  from A ReyeP.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 57  Level name: Secret VII  Secret level    WLHack's fourth level in such a short time –  I remember zooming through this and thought  he  had upstaged  me  in terms  of making a level using the  brown stone/brown  marble interplay.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 58  Level name: Secret VIII  Secret level    I remember receiving this on eit her December 29 or 30, it was very late, and  I still cannot remember how  I managed to  contact ack and in which  manner  he agreed to do so. All I remember is that in a relatively short time, he had produced  this level, and I was thrilled to see how  he  used the dark blue ceiling color without using any blue stone walls. This  definitely inspired me to use contrasting ceiling colors in future efforts  like All  This &  Wolf 3D which was just around the  corner at this time. I never talked much with ack, but around the time he left the community he sent me a very kind  private message. In terms of my "public persona" on the forums, I must admit I always wanted to be the guy ack was,  being very quiet and withdrawn, still making interesting posts now and then, and most importantly, top shelf level design.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 59  Level name: Secret IX  Secret level    Again, I remember feeling upstaged  by WLHack again, as he proved that I still had a long way to go in terms of using the  idea  of mazes and the usage of the  purple stone wall. But I was only thankful that he  managed to  pull off 5 astonishing  levels  in such little time.    NAZI OPERATION,  LEVEL 60 (#198)  Level name: Secret X  Compiled: August –  December 2005  Secret level  ----------------------- Page 59-----------------------    Originally this level had guards in it, but all in all it was made out of desperation. I wanted a secret treasure stash, but  lacked both ideas as well as concentration. But compared to my previous mods, Nazi Operation was indeed my first  good piece of work. To this day I am still happy I made it.    In the aftermath of Nazi Operation's release, I had found several old files of mine on a bu rnt CD-ROM. It contained my  large MIDI collection which I had disposed of in 2004, as well as a handful of folders with Wolf-related stuff, including  my earliest surviving levels, released in February as Abandon v0.0 . I do not count this as a proper release, a map set or a  mod. It is simply for "archival purposes", though only 18 months had passed between their making and their release.    Another thing I found was my early dabbling in coding,  Giftkrieg, but it was an early backup and sadly no original EXE  surfaced, only a slightly changed VSWAP. Schabbs 7000, the embryonic version of Secrets of Offenbach, was found here,  and released in May 2006. As with Abandon v0.0  I in no way view it as being a proper mod, just a demonstration of  what was going on behind the scenes. All the while this whole dabbling in the past (which had only been not more than  18 months old!) took place, I pounded out level after level for All This & Wolf 3D .    Abandon v0.0  Released: February 12, 2006  Compiled: September – October 2004    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 1 (#199)  Compiled: September – October 2004    Sometime in October 2005 I found a folder with old stuff, this embryonic version of Abandon  being some of it. Even  though only a year had passed at that time since the levels were ma de, I felt I had to release it for the simple reason of  nostalgia. This sounds ludicrous in hindsight, but that's how I felt. However, it wouldn't be until February 2006, well into  All This & Wolf 3D  and Nazi Operation having been out for six weeks, that Brian decided to post it on the Dome. I think  that was a wise choice.    This is my earliest surviving level. It was most likely the second level I ever made, after the aforementioned blue stone  level with tables and chairs and water puddles. I probably overwrote it with this level, which has actual content, even if  the floor codes (which I didn't even know what were) are mixed up. Several of my tricks appear here in early form, e.g.  the key pickup near a peek to the exit elevator, landscape guarded by a variety of block sprites. There is no way to  explain the way I felt when I first played this. I suppose, no matter how low-quality it may be, each and every level  maker's first experience playing his very first level is just tremendous.    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 2 (#200)  Compiled: September – October 2004    Perhaps my issues with purple stone levels that marred my level making with these for the better part of a year  originated with this level. I had such fun making it and playing it, but for some reason, o ne of the officers in the large  room with the tables and chairs froze "mid-sprite", as if one of his marching frames had become a block object. It really  baffled me. Either way, the level got made and I soldiered on.  ----------------------- Page 60-----------------------    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 3 (#201)  Compiled: September – October 2004    The December 2004 version of Abandon  probably contained levels 2-10 of this particular set in Episode 1. I am fairly  certain that is the case. This level was the original "walkthrough" released as Abandon  E2L2. In this set, I seem to  remember the EXE crashing when opening the door to the room filled to the rafters with guards.    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 4 (#202)  Compiled: September – October 2004    I finally had the tools to make a "great wide open" level, which I had always wanted. The room which features Gretel  Grosse could of course not be seen properly in 2004, long before SDL, but when I first played this in SDL I couldn't help  but smile. The sprite placement is random, but as it was one of my very earliest levels I think it's OK. I was mad about  having block object separations rather than walls, and having the Pac-Man ghost browse around outside while you  battled the boss was just exactly what I was going for.    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 5 (#203)  Compiled: September – October 2004    My initial impressions were good, as I liked toying with the steel panel in large sections. Obviously I was cheating when I  play tested this, as it's filled with guards and has little ammo or health to offer, despite housing Hans Grosse as the gold  key pickup.    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 6 (#204)  Compiled: September – October 2004    The overcrowded opening room was a joy to see first thing. I liked flat elevators in the beginning, though I wouldn't use  them again until Abandon 2: Purgatory!. The super secret area where the wells guard out the "outside" again only felt  true when I played these in SDL years later.    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 7 (#205)  Compiled: September – October 2004    Unlike most other levels of this set, I don't remember much about making this one. Perhaps it was a second attempt at  E1L7 or something. Often times when a level I had made wouldn't play properly and I couldn't find a proper solution;  I'd  delete it and create an entirely new one in its place. I knew nothing of floor codes and how to use them, and as such, all  rooms have the same floor code. This is probably why numerous levels, including this, have secret doors shielding the  rooms from each other.    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 8 (#206)  Compiled: September – October 2004    ----------------------- Page 61-----------------------  
This is another merciless level. I am glad to see it utilized the purple stone, which was usually not a favorite of mine  early on.    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 9 (#207)  Compiled: September – October 2004    The whole thing with la rge, seemingly empty rooms with numerous sprites and bones and blood all stem from the sense  of "abandonment" I felt had happened to the old mods I enjoyed playing in 2004. It seemed to me that if there weren't  five new weapons, three new guards, textured floors and ceilings and anything AReyeP hadn't done in the graphics  department, it didn't count as a mod. Obviously I was wrong, but I was really uptight about this early on. That's  probably why I titled it Abandon . That, and the fact that I listened constantly to the Deep Purple album with the same  name.    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 10  (#208)  Compiled: September – October 2004  Boss level    This is where inspiration for the December 2004 Abandon  E2L10 comes from. I am dead certain that these levels made  up Episode 1, with E1L1 as released in December 2004 being made out of desperation shortly before release.    ABANDON v0.0, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 1 (#209)  Compiled: September – October 2004    This was made in lieu of another level, which featured the Episode 2 blue wall, spear racks and barrels with landscape  behind, something I already described in Abandon  E2L1, for which it was also the primary inspiration. As with many  other levels with bugs, I just deleted it and made a new one in its place. This is the most recent of my very earliest  levels. I cannot recall making any more levels between this and what is now known as Abandon  E2L1.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D DEMO  Released: April 14, 2006  Compiled: January – April 2006    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D DEMO, LEVEL 1 (#210)  Level name:  Fortress  Compiled: January – April 2006    I wanted to prove that my level making had been greatly expanded since the end of Nazi Operation, which by then had  been out for more than 4 months. I put together 5 levels from All This & Wolf 3D  which were my then-favorites, and this  level which I suppose was the opening level for a while. A good month later, I would release a 40-level "v1.0" of All This  & Wolf 3D which I would quickly regret and rightfully withdraw, which featured a wholly different opening level . This  particular level got lost by the wayside. It's not that impressive, but I suppose as an opening level it's OK.    ----------------------- Page 62-----------------------  
Schabbs 7000  Released:  May 1, 2006  Compiled: February 2005    SCHABBS 7000, LEVEL 1 (#211)  Level name: Interfearance  Compiled: February 2005    Whereas Abandon v0.0 contained 11 levels that could be played and won, Schabbs 7000 was an unwise release. It only  contains 1 previously unreleased level, the Secrets of Offenbach levels 2 and 3, and then features a section of a secret level  that I cannot remember anything about. Nevertheless, it was released, as it contained functioning MAP- and OBJDATA files  and had things in it that could make it interesting for someone who wants to try his hand on making levels. This opening  level was discarded in favor of the known Secrets of Offenbach  level 1, which I do not regret. It's OK for its time, but as an  opening level it's a bit too patchy.    SCHABBS 7000, LEVELS 2 & 3    These were released in their respective level spots in Secrets of Offenbach.    All This & Wolf 3D v1.0  Released: May 18, 2006  Compiled: November 2005 –  May 2006    This release was a mess. I realized this a week or two after putting it out. Out of desperation, and because I felt very  insecure about the whole thing, I decided to pair what I had made for the All This & Wolf 3D  project with some levels I  was putting together for a map set and released it on May 18, which consisted of 32 levels made for this project and 7  from a failed map set of mine, with a boss level contributed by Dean. Another factor of my insecurities was also that I  could not get a hold of Chris, and my patience was more or less non-existent back then. Eventually, he wrote me some e- mails and committed himself more to the project, and overhauled the EXE into the shape it eventually was released as.  After roughly a month of thinking it over, I decided to ask Brian to remove v1.0 from the Dome, and allowed myself to  start over. In the meantime, I had still been playing Return to Castle Wolfenstein,  which would inspire numerous levels I  made in the coming months.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D v1.0, LEVELS 1 & 34    These  levels were later slotted into Quest for the General where they appear as levels 5 and 9, respectively.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D v1.0, LEVELS 2-32 & 39    These levels appeared in the finished version of All This & Wolf 3D  in their respective places, except levels 31 and 32,  which were moved 10 spots ahead each. Level 39 was released as level 7.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D v1.0, LEVEL 33 (#212)  ----------------------- Page 63-----------------------  
Level name: The Crunge  Compiled: March – April 2006    The name of the level comes from a Led Zeppelin song. The level itself features two interesting secret areas, all of which  are visible to the player. Other than that, it's fairly average. As with all the other levels that never made it out of this  version of All This & Wolf 3D, it was made for a map set. Even though All This & Wolf 3D was extremely close to the original  game, I still felt the urge to something completely original, which seems ridiculous to me, looking back. It would take six  years before I finally caved in to making a full-on map set with no modifications whatsoever.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D v1.0, LEVEL 35 (#213)  Level name: All Snook Up  Compiled: March – April 2006    This was another addition to my map set, featuring an odd silver key area wh ere the officers are visible behind columns  but not able to be alarmed until the player enters the area.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D v1.0, LEVEL 36 (#214)  Level name: Fowty-Sixth  Compiled: March – April 2006    Though I clearly remember this being made for the map set, I must have planned to slot it into All This & Wolf 3D  anyhow. The level name indicates this being level 46, but as the laboratory areas were not ready coding-wise, level spots  31-40 remained empty until late summer 2006.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D v1.0, LEVE L 37 (#215)  Level name: King Kong-krete  Compiled: March – April 2006    This was made for a Spear map set. I am sure of that. I don't know why I kept attempting to do map sets while doing  proper mods, looking back I cannot understand why. The drab, awful concrete texture makes an appearance. I wanted to  be friends with it, but I just couldn't. Nevertheless, I am glad to see so many marching guards and there's an interesting  spiral room on the way to the elevator.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D v1.0, LEVEL 38 (#216)  Level name: Last Call...Not  Compiled: April 23, 2006    Compared to the previous levels, this seems more understated and in accord with the traditional All This & Wolf 3D  levels. Apparently I didn't have the nerve to finish it, though, at the time, with the rooms towards the silver key having no  guards, and the elevator being placed abruptly, just to pass on to the next level. This was a very, very un-cool thing to do.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D v1.0, LEVEL 40  Level name: Free at Last!  ----------------------- Page 64-----------------------    This was made by Dean, a long-time supporter of mine. I liked it. Shortly after this, Dean and I would collaborate on a  project which came apart just as it had been assembled –  Wolfram.    Wolfram  Released: July 1, 2006  Compiled: June 2006    WOLFRAM, LEVEL 1 (#217)  Level name: Sub-Access  Compiled: June 2006    After a short while in the wilderness, I returned to All This & Wolf 3D and eventually completed it. I am not sure when  Wolfram took hold. The most realistic scenario would be that it was started when I still considered All This & Wolf 3D over  and done with, and wanted to do something completely different. Wolfram features a Lost Episodes vibe, a world apart  from what the original atmosphere had to offer. I don't know what caused my hunger for something vastly different, but I  couldn't go through with it and just wanted it over and done with. It was a huge mistake, I thought. Dean had prepared a  fine EXE that worked with no bugs, but I was just sinking. I had no time for it at all. Luckily, as fate would have it, we  eventually collaborated on a similar project roughly a year later, which featured an atmosphere very much like that of  Wolfram. That project was NovoWolf.    The opening level for Wolfram, for which I have forgotten the storyline (and none was attached in the zip) features an old  castle/laboratory vibe interspersed with each other. I don't know. I remember I liked it the first time I played it, but this  whole project just depresses me. I wish I could've taken it further at the time. Why this level, and the other "orphans"  released in the first half of 2006 were not included in Odds and Ends years later, I don't know.    All This & Wolf 3D  Released: January 27, 2007  Compiled: November 25, 2005 –  December 21, 2006    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  1 (#218)  Level name: The Break-In  Compiled: July 24, 2006    All This & Wolf 3D started with an EXE that Chris made, sent to me in July 2005. As mentioned earlier, while making Secrets  of Offenbach I tired of having to use no more than 399 sprites and 149 guards per level. This EXE gave me free reign to  expand my level making, which of course resulted in colossal levels most of the time. I had tremendous fun making it. The  first level was done in November 2005, but ended up at level spot 16. This particular opening level, which like Nazi  Operation takes inspiration from Assassinate Hitler, was made in two sittings in July 2006, when my creativity at its highest,  having worked on this project for roughly 9 months at that time.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 2 (#219)  ----------------------- Page 65-----------------------  
Level name: Cellar Junction  Compiled: December 2, 2005    For a brief time, levels 2 through 6 were  replaced with  newer  levels, but for historical sake I decided to keep them. They  were not bad, I just felt my style had improved, but this epiphany also made me realize that it might be clever to keep  these as my improvement would be underlined. The gray slime interplay with the  Lost Episodes cornfield texture worked  out quite well. The maze bit gets a bit old rather quickly, but I was still finding my feet in making huge levels.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 3 (#220)  Level name: SS Rendezvous  Compiled: December 21, 2005    In the days between  making  levels 2 and 3 I was finishing off Nazi Operation.  I suppose  I hurried it up because of this mod  stealing all attention. I was in awe of the  EXE, and as I finally had the proper chops to  make  large and exciting levels, it of  course exploded into a series of  monster-sized affairs being  made. This was done with much love and determination for  difficulty and SS guards stealing the show on a  Friday evening leading into Christmas break.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 4 (#221)  Level name: Bunker 666  Compiled: December 23, 2005    This was a tad small compared to what was to come –  I enjoyed  making it, though. The  brown  marble  played off well with  the red bricks.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 5 (#222)  Level name: Secrecies  Compiled: December 31, 2005/Ja nuary 1, 2006    I look back with fondness on  how  much fun  I had  making this  particular  level. It was done over New Year's Eve.  I started it  during the afternoon. I worked and worked on this  level, added  more sections  here and there, spiced it up with a  ridiculous amount of secret doors which eventually lent this  level its  name. I was so  happy with the end  result. For a long  time this was  my personal favorite that I had ever done, and I still take pride in it, even though it may be on the heavy  side in terms of size. The gray concrete (cobblestone) sections were inspired by Chemical Warfare levels 4 and 28, and I  think there's a bit of Poet in there as well.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 6 (#223)  Level name: Bunker 999  Compiled: January 4, 2006    This was done in the wake of the  previous  level's velocity.  I remember making the first few  rooms and then  running dry. A  couple  hours  later, I finished it off. It was  partly inspired  by Operation  Todpf ad  level 2, the domestic  parts of it. There's a  3x3 room/column area  I'm not proud of, and though the  previous  level was  built around the fact that it  had  numerous  ----------------------- Page 66-----------------------  
secret doors, this level actually had  more !    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 7 (#224)  Level name: Bluesville  Compiled: December 24, 2005    This was one of the early  levels I originally had written it out of t he  mod after replacing the first levels with newer ones,  but in keeping with the historical aspect and overall theme, I slid it back in. This features four separate prison units, which  is a level build I rarely use, but I enjoyed making it.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 8 (#225)  Level name: Bunker Compound  Compiled: January 7, 2006    The  bright ceiling color contrasted well with the  brown stone/gray  brick interplay –  I could easily imagine this  being  outside, with the  main gray brick premises  being inside. The ceiling color is supposed to illustrate beaming sunlight, no  matter how old hat it turned out in the end. Again, there are heaps of secret doors, but apparently that was what I felt  like doing at the time.  I f inally had the option to  make levels as crazy as I wanted, with as many guards, objects, anything  one could want, and as a result of this, ideas would come thick and fast – in some cases too fast, perhaps.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 9 (#226)  Level name: Mutant City  Compiled: January 9, 2006    Had it not been for the cheapskate  mazes this could have  been a good  level. I was obviously trying out some  new design  ideas with the gray slime and the domestic sprites and see  how well they could  hold each other up, especially wells and  columns.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  10 (#227)  Level name:  Houses of Hans  Compiled: January –  February 2006  Boss level    All things considered, this is a fair  boss  level. I was still a bit uncomfortable in using the  Episode 5 blue wall texture, but it  turned out OK. I still think Hans Grosse fits in better with the walls from Episode 1. For this mod I wanted boss levels for  every 10 levels. It seemed fair enough to me, having 9  levels of space between making boss levels, avoiding the disasters  of previous mods.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  11 (#228)  Level name: Officer's Lounge  Compiled: January –  February 2006  ----------------------- Page 67-----------------------    Whereas  level 3 was exclusive to SS guards, this  level was exclusive to officers. I suppose my original skeletal idea of this  mod was to gradually introduce the guards, so that levels  1 and 2 were  regular guards only, SS started appearing from  level 3 onwards, and officers weren't introduced until  level  11. That all changed when  I decided to  redo the early  levels,  as is clearly evidenced  by all 4 guards appearing in the first level. This  particular level  I don't remember much about other  than  I  liked experimented with the different textures that fit with the  brown ceiling.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  12 (#229)  Level name: Soddy Galore  Compiled: January –  February 2006    This was inspired  by levels  12 and  18 in Schabbs 2000 which  respectively used the cornfield texture and the  brown  concrete from Spear. I was  really getting into using the 64x64 to its fullest. I  had a ball making  most  levels for this  mod,  especially these early ones.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  13 (#230)  Level name: Castly Complex  Compiled: January –  February 2006    This is one of many true castle  levels in that it contains surroundings as well as what is supposed to  be the actual castle. I  was still learning  my trade in this department, and  I suppose  I padded it out a little  in using  majo r  hallways amidst smaller  rooms.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  14 (#231)  Level name: Czech Residence  Compiled: January 14, 2006    Here we  have yet another colossus. In the early days of this  mod  I still used the checkerboard texture from Schabbs 2000.  It was only when  I started a thread at the DieHard Wolfers' forums about ceiling colors that  Ringman, who is excellent  with graphics, posted a checkerboard texture based on the brown  marble that  he had put together. It was  brilliant,  smoother and  had way more edge and  root in the Wolf graphics than the original Schabbs 2000 checkerboard  had.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  15 (#232)  Level name: Strongholded  Compiled: January –  February 2006    This  level originally retained the original E2L5 ceiling color, which was  bright  blue. It then  became dark green. I was  experimenting with ceiling colors again, and still did my best to fill out the 64x64 slate, here using primarily gray stone.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  16 (#233)  Level name: The Prison  ----------------------- Page 68-----------------------  
Compiled: November 25 –  December 1, 2005    This was the first level I ever did for this project. I had a terrific time  making it. I started it on a Friday and finished it off  the following week whilst  putting the finishing touches to Nazi Operation. Originally as  level 1  it had  BJ starting in a cell,  which was rebuilt as a small elevator room in order for it to fit with the chronology. All things considered, looking  back, I  suppose  I should've  kept it as level  1 as the overall chronology/improvement would  make a lot more sense, but then  I  would have an opening level with which  I wouldn't know what to do.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  17 (#234)  Level name: Purple Rain  Compiled: February 11, 2006    This  level  uses  purple textures exclusively. It also features a secret area which is accessible from more than one  place,  something that required a bit more thought.  Even though it's a colossal  level and its surroundings are of similar size, I  think it's too weak. In  my mind, the  purple color has too much depth to be the only color used in a level.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  18 (#235)  Level name: Brick House  Compiled: February 16, 2006    I had a blast making this, and shortly after playing it  myself I thought  it was one of the  best levels I had ever made. I was  slowly beginning to master the red brick texture.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL  19 (#236)  Level name: Officer Down!  Compiled: February 17/18, 2006    This is yet another themed level, utilizing officers and a general Episode 6 influence.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 20 (#237)  Level name: Fatman Returns  Compiled: February 21, 2006  Boss level    The sky blue ceiling came out of a  DieHard Wolfers' thread started by me, where  Ringman  praised the coupling of brown  weave and that particular shade of blue. I liked its openness, slightly maritime  kind of look contrasting with the drabness  and despair of being in a cave. Obviously E6L9 was an influence  here as General Fettgesicht  is the  boss of this level as  well.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 21 (#238)  Level name: La Concresia  ----------------------- Page 69-----------------------  
Compiled: February –  March 2006    This originally used the gray tile texture from the Lost  Episodes which worked out pretty good. As it did not sit well with  the original Wolf feel I swapped it for the drab gray concrete texture from Spear which  I never liked in the first  place. I  should have found a different wall texture. There's a mess of different textures in this  level, some of which do  not fit  together too well. This may have been made at a different time than the surrounding levels.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 22 (#239)  Level name: Czychoslovakia  Compiled: February 24, 2006    I had fun  making this  level. This again uses  Ringman's checkerboard texture along with the stained glass textures  he also  redid for me in a smoother fashion. The ceiling color was subject to much debate in the aforementioned forums thread  as  I started out with the brighter purple originally from Spear level 9 but ended up using the  more acceptable teal  instead. I still think I should have gone with the purple. This was originally located at level spot 23, but was moved one  spot down for some reason.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 23 (#240)  Level name: Soft Dogs  Compiled: February 24, 2006    The  mellow ceiling color sat well with the  lightness of the softwood  partition. This  level also  had a  high concentration on  dogs, something  I was still getting used to. I had always replaced the dog actor in my previous projects, except Nazi  Operation of course. Though my design skills were improving at an exceeding  rate and  I had been  making  levels for  almost 18 months, I still had not taken into account that dogs and guards  had different marching speeds and that I could  not include guards and dogs  in the same marching  pattern.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 24 (#241)  Level name: Castlemania  Compiled: February –  March 2006    This is a rather sparse, "retro" type  level seated amongst all these titanic constructions. This again uses the sky blue  ceiling color from level 20.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 25 (#242)  Level name: Stoned  Compiled: March 15/16, 2006    The stone wall from Spear always suited  monster-size  levels, in  my opinion. This is j ust another  Totengraeber  pastiche,  but still playable.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 26 (#243)  ----------------------- Page 70-----------------------  
Level name: Rotten Bottom  Compiled: March  17, 2006    This was fun to  make. I was experimenting with  large, spiral, winding hallways. There's an overall  sewer/cellar feel to the  level, which  I don't think was intended. The inspiration, most interestingly, was actually  Chokage  E1L3. I always admired  Chris' levels as much as his coding and ideas .    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 27 (#244)  Level name: Dead Simple  Compiled: March  18, 2006    This was obviously inspired  by Chemical Warf are  levels 4 and 28 which also used the gray concrete wall from Spear. I had  tremendous fun  making this, and it seemed for a while  I could go on forever in  making  large  levels.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 28 (#245)  Level name: Romanova  Compiled: March 24, 2006    I was on a roll and j ust kept producing  large  levels. This brown marble level was one of my favorites back then, but I must  admit, there are times when I can't stand levels with too many similar walls in them, but apparently that was  not the case  back then.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 29 (#246)  Level name: Safe n' Sound                                         Compiled: March – April 2006    I began to  run out of steam. I remember level spot 29 originally used purple textures, but I got fed up with that particular  color and tried something different. This  used the  Episode 5 blue wall texture which  I still had some issues with. I could  never get a big idea for a level going with it then.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 30 (#247)  Level name: Saint Otto  Compiled: March – April 2006  Boss level    I was quite satisfied when  I finished this. I felt it was the first grandiose  boss  level  I'd done, even though the 3x chain gun  pickups obviously compensated for the  lack of ammo  boxes. Around this time, I put out a 5-level demo of this mod, which  was well received. It included what I thought of as the cream of the roughly 30 levels I had back then.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 31 (#248)  Level name: Labsters Avenue  ----------------------- Page 71-----------------------  
Compiled: June – October 2006    As with Project W olfgeist, the lab  levels were done separately from the other  levels, often with weeks  between them in  order to gather inspiration. I did  not  begin work on the  lab  levels  until some of the  new graphics were in  place. This first  lab level starts in a rather ordinary bunker environment with gray  bricks, but quickly turns into standard  lab fare, with  inspiration  primarily coming from Schabbs 2000, Chemical Warf are,  Totengraeber and Wolf Skevos-Jones.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 32 (#249)  Level name: Between  Compiled: June – October 2006    As  I was  playing Return to Castle  Wolfenstein for the first time in the  months surrounding  making these first few  lab  levels  its influence casts a shadow over numerous levels here. The opening  room is  more or less a straight take on the opening  room in  mission 5. Of course, it's  hard to duplicate a large, grand environment from a newer game into this cramped, old  engine, but I gave it  my best. The shower sprites were  nicked from Operation Hundscheisse, which  I loved when it came  out, and  I always felt that shower sprites were a missing  link in t he domestic sprite department, together with toilets,  urinals, dressers, drawers, chairs, desks and filing cabinets.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 33 (#250)  Level name: Leekbarrel City  Compiled: June – October 2006    As these  lab  levels were  my first stabs at making true  lab  levels after getting  more and  more skilled,  I was of course  experimenting with what could  be  pulled off and what could  not. T his is  mainly a vast, narrow  hallway-based  level –  I'm  just thankful you don't lose  health when you step on the  puddles of nuclear waste ! The name of course refers to leaking  barrels of nuclear waste, not the vegetable. Apparently I still needed to work on my English.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 34 (#251)  Level name: Labborateral  Compiled: June – October 2006    Aside from the obvious Wolf Skevos-Jones inspiration, I cannot remember much about this  level other than it took its  time coming along. Various  lab  levels were stretched over long  periods of time – the second half of the  lab  portion was  not finished until November.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 35 (#252)  Level name: Tortural Garden  Compiled: June – October 2006    Using standard sprites such as cages and hanging skeletons inside the labs wasn't something I thought would work out in  the long run, though it did turn out OK in the end. The same goes for the columns  used in the  previous  levels. I was trying  to balance the teal sheen of the steel panel with the  bright white  lab  panel from the Lost  Episodes.  Looking back, the  ----------------------- Page 72-----------------------  
gray/metallic steel  panel from  Totengraeber would've suited it better, but compared to the original Wolf walls it would  have looked too slick.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 36 (#253)  Level name: Reflections  Compiled: November –  December 2006    I suppose the  purple stone texture in the beginning was  me experimenting with  how far you can take the flourishes of  original Wolf within a new, more clinical lab approach. There are  mutants in this  level that do not react to the player, as if  they are still in a "test" stage. I took this from Wolf Skevos-Jones and Project  Eisenritter though Dean saw it as a bug,  which I understood. But this was intended.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 37 (#254)  Level name: Deep Whiteness  Compiled: November –  December 2006    There's a fair sense of snow  blindness  in this  level. I remember winters where the frost would hang  heavy in the air, the  sun would  belt down  but nothing would  melt, and the bright, clear snow would almost blind you as if you were in a  desert on a  hot day in July.  I tried to translate this  into tempting the player into a near-mania state  by  making insufferable  overtly  bright lab  levels with a lot of difficulty to  boot.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 38 (#255)  Level name: WASTED!  Compiled: November –  December 2006    This is one of my favorite steel panel  levels. It's a pretty monstrous  level, and this was the eighth  lab  level –  I could've  scaled things down, but decided  not to –  I wanted the  player to  beg for the  boss  level to come around soon enough.  Though  no wall textures from  Totengraeber were used, that  mod was a huge  influence on  how  I decided to  handle the  skeletal lab  levels – where and  how the secret doors should function and what they should contain and so forth.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 39 (#256)  Level name: Steel and Glass  Compiled: November –  December 2006    This was the  last level before the  boss level. I remember I strived to  make it as long-draught and dreary as  possible.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 40 (#257)  Level name: The Schabby One  Compiled: November –  December 2006  Boss level    ----------------------- Page 73-----------------------  
I was always  hugely disappointed with the original E2L9 as  I wanted the final showdown of the  mutant maker's quarters  to  be  heavy, gory, filled with  mutants and other nuclear sprites –  I took those childhood fantasies into account when  making this  level and did my best.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 41 (#258)  Level name: Mashed Tater  Compiled: March – April 2006    This was done after Otto's  boss  level as I still didn't have the appropriate  resources to start the  lab  levels at that point.  This continues the colossus approach  I was going for then. It utilizes a large  number of textures as well, which was  inspired  by Gary Ragland. In some of my  levels  I tend to be a bit conservative in  my selection of textures, but when I  made this I was very much into color variation.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 42 (#259)  Level name: Dark Dungeon  Compiled: March – April 2006    After I finished this average but still playable blue stone prison level, my engines shut off. 18 months of more or less  constant level making had finally taken its toll. After some weeks of consideration, I released what I  had and patched it up  with a map set I was working on, as All This & Wolf 3D v1.0  on May 18. Shortly after, things started to look better for this  particular project, and so I got back to work. But this  level was definitely the end of the first epoch of massive level  making.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 43 (#260)  Level name: Scheissekopf !  Compiled: May 2006    This level was done coming off the Return to Castle  Wolfenstein wagon.  It is way more cubic and  realistic in its  approaches. It's inevitable that the old school feel resurfaces – t he  light  brown ceiling and gray stone #3 pairing came  from Operation Panzerschiff .    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 44 (#261)  Level name: Scumbag Heaven  Compiled: May 28, 2006    Whether or not this or the previous  level was the first level to  be  made after the  May 18 release of the 40-level version  I'm still not sure of, but I remember this level  put my feet  back firmly on the ground in terms of making  levels for the mod  with certainty, though. The gray concrete from Spear, or cobblestone, was a nice catalyst for interesting  levels that could  conjure up any atmosphere. It was after making this level I immediately decided to withdraw the 40-level version and get  back to work. I did not set any deadline, so that took off the pressure a little bit as well.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 45 (#262)  ----------------------- Page 74-----------------------  
Level name: Big n' Green  Compiled: May – June 2006    Together with Return to Castle  Wolfenstein  I was also  playing Wolf Skevos-Jones stuff again. Remember, I had only  had  VDMSound for barely half a year. I often got the itch to  play all the old Wolf things I loved so  much when  I was  12 and  first got into the entire Wolf mod scene. It was all  possible again after a  long while of not being able to  hear music or  digitized sounds. This  level started as a checkerboard thing which  I got bored with quickly, so  I turned it into a gray slime  thing instead .    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 46 (#263)  Level name: Cleaveland  Compiled: May – June 2006    This  must've slipped  my mind for some time –  looking at it now  I think it's one of the  more subtle  levels of this  mod. It's  also one of my earliest with the Episode 5  blue wall which works as a smooth, spacious thing  rat her than the old  Episode  5 pastiche with a lot happening in  not too  much space. The fact that the  mutants  roam this  particular part of the  level  without looking out of place is even better.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 47 (#264)  Level name: Purp-n-Blurp  Compiled: June 2006    Each time  I started making a purple stone  level, I would have massive aspirations. If it didn't end up looking like a  monstrous,  maze-heavy, nightmare colossus  level  in the vein of E2L6 I would feel disappointed.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 48 (#265)  Level name: Bloody Patterns  Compiled: June  10, 2006    I was  back on the  high horse of high concept yet again – colossus levels coming  like they did when  I started this  mod. I'm  really satisfied with  levels  like this.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 49 (#266)  Level name: Klassic  Kastle  Compiled: June 25, 2006    This  level continued the  roll from the  previous  level. I enjoyed  making it. As with the earliest  levels of what became Nazi  Operation this was done on a hot summer  night with the windows open and the monitor brightness toned down.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 50 (#267)  Level name: Blow the Bro  ----------------------- Page 75-----------------------  
Compiled: June – July 2006  Boss level    I remember it took forever getting started with this boss level. Three different attempts were made, including one half- finished level (without any guards though), but eventually I settled with this one. As a boss level, it's all  right, it doesn't  really lack anything  but it's also  nothing special. Shortly after making this  level I retired from All This &  Wolf 3D  but did  not release it or anything, in fact  I didn't even tell anyone that it was on "hiatus". As mentioned earlier, I had started a  project with a Lost Episodes influence called Wolfram at this  point which  I quickly regretted – firm apologies to Dean,  who did the EXE and did a great job. Additionally, t he first seeds  had  been sown for what would become Quest for the  General, so all  my creative juices went out on that instead. I tend to not act rationally when having more than one project  in the works.    ALL THIS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 51 (#268)  Level name: Comonthen!  Compiled: August – September 2006    In the wake of the Wolfram disaster, I went back to this mod and re-did the opening level. I also started Quest for the  General in which I did my best to make more free-form levels that perhaps owed more to ack than to Gary Ragland.  But  while all this fizzled out, I returned to this mod and started this level. At the time,  I had begun playing Doom and  WolfenDoom  projects in an emulator. And so, I played  both of t hese which inspired  me to do  more spiral designs. I am  not so sure about the gore –  Doom featured that in heaps, but  I don't know if I replicated it that well here.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 52 (#269)  Level name: Mindbender  Compiled: October 7, 2006    I was still keen on using spiral hallways, some of which were  probably too over-decorated. I always thought that gray  brick sat well with the teal ceiling color, something lifted from my favorite of the original levels, E6L7.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 53 (#270)  Level name: Sawed in Two  Compiled: October –  November 2006    Looking back, I am surprised at how large the levels were all the way through. Obviously, I was starting to auto -pilot  designs and ideas, resulting in this  level looking rather cluttered and over the top. It was inspired by Schabbs 2000 and  Operation Todpf ad  level 2 as so  many other wood  panel levels of mine were at this time.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 54 (#271)  Level name: Little Kremlin  Compiled: October 22, 2006    This  reprises the sky  blue ceiling from levels 20 and 24. I found it went well with the  red  bricks and  numerous other  ----------------------- Page 76-----------------------  
textures. The  red  brick section was inspired  by Schabbs 2000 level  10. We have some  holowall/secret area trickery in here  in getting to  kill all guards, but it is possible.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 55 (#272)  Level name: BJ in a Bubble  Compiled: October –  November 2006    I was quite  keen on this level once  I finished it. The  black ceiling  really gave it a dark, brooding character which sat well  with the "Into the  Dungeons" tune, and this was also an early effort of mine to  mess with gray slime together with  regular  gray stone and features some interesting  ideas in utilizing the spear rack, a sprite I had not tinkered that much with  before.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 56 (#273)  Level name: Castle of Doom  Compiled: October –  November 2006    This  reprises the idea of Operation Achtliebe  E1L3 in that it's a surrounded castle with  peephole corners. This was  originally inspired by John Bucksnort. Other than that, it was inspired  by Schabbs 2000 and  parts of it look  like what I later  put into the opening  level of Novo Wolf.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 57 (#274)  Level name: Nusshaus  Compiled: November 18, 2006    Here we  have yet another  level fitting in the colossus category – apparently I just couldn't stop once  I got going. This was  inspired  by Episode 6 and WLHack.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 58 (#275)  Level name: Blackening Out  Compiled: October –  November 2006    For a while this was slated to  be  level 3, as I wanted to  replace the older  levels with  newer ones as I felt they  had  more  meat on the  bone. In the end I abandoned the idea, which in turn was a good  move. This  particular  level was fun to  make. It's another colossus, this time utilizing the softwood  panel.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D, LEVEL 59 (#276)  Level name: The Last Breath  Compiled: October –  November 2006    This was originally supposed to  be the  new  level 2. I view this is as one of the  better gray slime  levels, and  I have  made a  lot of those in  my time. Two years later, this level would make an appearance in The Bitter End as  I held it in  high  regard,  and still do to some extent.  ----------------------- Page 77-----------------------    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 60 (#277)  Level name: Gingerhouse  Compiled: October –  November 2006  Boss level    Excepting the E4L4-inspired secret areas in the opening  room, this is a pretty poor effort compared to its  place as one of  the  last  levels  I did for All This &  Wolf 3D. Seven boss  levels  had to  be  made, and  I had to run dry at some  point. What I  regret the most is the ending. Horrible, horrible  usage of softwood  littered with vines and  landscape, some of which can  be viewed from more than one angle, probably a rush job or a spur of the moment.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 61 (#278)  Level name: Prisonality  Compiled: January – April 2006    This was one of the earlier levels, finished well before appearing in the May 18 40-level version. I opted to use it  here  anyway. It had originally replaced level 7. It's an OK prison level –  nothing  more, nothing less.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 62 (#279)  Level name: Sewicide  Compiled: November –  December 2006    The title owes to its small, claustrophobic feel which was obviously taken from Gary Ragland. Assassinate Hitler  level 2 is  one of my all-time favorite gray slime levels.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 63 (#280)  Level name: To WSJ !  Compiled: December 7, 2006    I was  playing a lot of Wolf Skevos-Jones stuff at the time, apparently in such a fashion that I became  inspired to drag  some of its impressions into this  much  more originally-based, roots-type  mod in which  my inspiration from there  may not  be that obvious. The  placement of objects was  new to  me though – and ever since  making this, I'm no stranger to  larger  rooms, marching guards, objects  placed outside corners or in  booths of their own and so on.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 64 (#281)  Level name: Classico  Compiled: December 8, 2006    I finally made a  level based on the Episode 5  blue wall texture that really worked. It's  humongous and extremely  enj oyable. It was  partly inspired by Operation Panzerschiff and  E6L7. For a long time I would rarely use marching guards  in this fashion.  ----------------------- Page 78-----------------------    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 65 (#282)  Level name: Knee Deep  Compiled: December 9/10, 2006    AReyeP, Wolf Skevos-Jones, Schabbs 2000,  Totengraeber and Operation Panzerschiff all inspired this  particular level. I  enjoy the  mellow gray ceiling which  I think  has the same  nuance as the floor, making this a tad claustrophobic – but with  its many wide open spaces there is  no crammed feeling in this  level at all. It's a very good  level.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 66 (#283)  Level name: Dank You!  Compiled: December 2006    This was inspired  by Coming of t he Storm  level 8. The  idea of a large, dank cave really stuck with  me, so with some  inspiration from Nazi Operation and the inevitable Schabbs 2000,  I cranked this out one evening.  I'm not happy with the  "Jazzin' Them Nazis" tune, though. I still believe it suits a secret level better.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 67 (#284)  Level name: The Final Cut  Compiled: December 15/16, 2006    This was the  last standard level I did for this  mod, as the final boss  level  had already been done and  level 68 featured  shading and little to no guards. This level is  huge, partly inspired  by the  Ramparts  level from Spear, I guess. It was j ust me  freewheeling, a bit too  large and overblown, but as  I was scaling things down for the then-nascent Castle Assault  I  decided to go all in for one  last time.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 68 (#285)  Level name: No Quarter  Compiled: December 21, 2006    This was inspired  by the  Led Zeppelin song of the same  name and was  made in a few  hours. The fog effect and  ghosts/a bandoned castle scheme was an old idea of mine  I  had  long wanted to implement somewhere, and though it got  a bit boring and  repetitive in the end, I  had a blast making  it. This was the  last  level I did for All This &  Wolf 3D.  A few days  later I was sent the  last patch before testing which included  level 69.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 69  Level name: Chris' Spot    This was a game changer. Shortly after playing this on skill 4 I realized that this would  probably make all other levels  irrelevant, which was a shame, really. I  loved  making this  mod, it was fun having a project that took well over a year to  make that a lot of people  liked when it came out, and this  level is still  part of much  lore in the Wolf community. I was  really thankful for Chris' coding skills and his contribution of this  level. I felt  it encompassed every great aspect of Wolf;  ----------------------- Page 79-----------------------  
the  numerous  reprises of the original  levels, the cameos of many other video games (Duke Nukem, Commander Keen,  Corridor 7 and more), the challenge in that there is a timer and the feeling that new ground has been broken. The  music is  a slowed-down version of the  1998 skate punk song  Pretty Fly (For a White Guy), which then segues into a remix of sorts  of Nine Inch Nails' Hurt. As time passed, this level got much more recognition and notice than the actual mod, which I  always thought was a great shame.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 70 (#286)  Level name: Approaching…  Compiled: December 4, 2006    I decided to sit down and  make this  level, not because  I had any particular inspiration, but  because  I wanted to try and  open MapEdit and wing it, like in the good old days.  I padded it out while listening to Led Zeppelin III, which was a poor  move. As a follow-up to the  previous level it was terrible, though all things considered I had no idea w hat Chris was up  to at this time, and as a final  level to this tremendously sized  mod it was very disappointing. It was fun to  make it though,  it was way more free-form than anything  I had ever done at the time, but I should have had a second opinion on this. As  this was made 7 weeks before it was released, I regret now that I did not re-make this level.    ALL TH IS & WOLF 3D,  LEVEL 0 (71)  (#287)  Level name: Showdown!  Compiled: December 4, 2006    This was done in 30 minutes following the previous level. I regret it immensely. The  Hitler ghosts with chain guns were  Chris' idea –  pretty good, actually. The level itself was a pathetic excuse for an ending, and as  Hitler was supposed to  be in  there somewhere  I think I should  have made a better level, one that you would remember playing; and ever since Secrets  of Offenbach, having an end  level object effect  made  me ecstatic. After making this level I took it easy, before starting  Castle Assault December 18. I wish that I had had the patience and the insight to change  both this as well as the previous  level – even if level 69 had not preceded them, they were still below the cut compared to the rest of this mod.    Castle Assault  Released:  February 12, 2007  Compiled: August 2006 –  February 6, 2007    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL  1 (#288)  Level name: Hole in the Sky  Compiled: December 18, 2006    As All This &  Wolf 3D came to an end, I was  ready for my next proj ect. As All This &  Wolf 3D saw me experimenting with  mostly large  levels, I decided that this  mod would be a bit more scaled down, and so  I knew from the start that the  changes there  may be wouldn't  be  majo r. The  levels, likewise, would  be less grandiose, but still a lot of fun  both to  make  and play. The idea of having the  MAC  BJ on the status  bar was something  I had wanted ever since seeing it on an old  screenshot on the Dome for some obscure Dugtrio17 project. So  I edited it out of a WolfenDoom  project and off I went.  This opening  level  is a cozy,  light brown wood panel thing which signals a new start, compared to the monster opening  ----------------------- Page 80-----------------------  
levels of All This &  Wolf 3D and to a certain extent Nazi Operation. Shortly after I had finished this  level I asked Havoc if  he could brew together an  EXE with small changes  I'd already jotted down in a notepad file. It didn't take  long  before  I  received the  EXE. The  landscape in this  level was originally day time  but in the end  I switched to the  nighttime one  instead, which I regret now as it does not suit the mood of this particular level.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 2 (#289)  Level name: 1983  Compiled:  December 2006    This  level was  primarily  inspired  by BJ  Rowan  but I suppose the gold  key room owes a lot of E6L1. It was around then  I  started to use cells as secret doors, always making sure that  it terminates inside a wall so that it cannot be viewed from  two or more sides. I think I originally wanted to introduce the officer a bit  later, but I was coming off of All This &  Wolf 3D  which  had everything  head-on from level 1 and up, so it was  hard to  hold back.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 3 (#290)  Level name: Music Is My Aeroplane  Compiled: December 2006    The usage of daytime  landscape was  rare for me at this time. I felt  it gave the  levels a different, brighter twist, so I look  back regretting using the nighttime landscape instead. This is another fine  brown  marble  level. Though All This &  Wolf 3D  could  have drained  me, I popped out  levels at an almost alarming  rate in these couple of weeks.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 4 (#291)  Level name: I Am the God of Hellfire!  Compiled: December 2006    This used the gray brick wall, one of my favorites, and did not take that long to  make.  I'm certain that Gary Ragland was in  there somewhere – again.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 5 (#292)  Level name: Long, Long, Long  Compiled: December 26, 2006    I was still happy about level 68 from All This &  Wolf 3D and  I suppose some of that's in  here as well. This was a rare  level  of mine in which a compound can  be surrounded and scoped  before it can  be entered, even though there are  no  keys in  there. I was quite satisfied with  how this  level turned out and  how it concealed the secret elevator. Schabbs 2000  level 3  was an obvious influence. This was done in the early afternoon.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 6 (#293)  Level name: World of Pain  Compiled: December 26, 2006    ----------------------- Page 81-----------------------  
This  level was done in the evening, whilst on Christmas  break – a wonderful time to  make levels. I used  ideas here  I had  not used until then, and  I suppose Schabbs 2000 level 3 is in here yet again.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 7 (#294)  Level name: Wearing the Inside Out  Compiled: December 27, 2006    I remember originally using the  new checkerboard texture from All This &  Wolf 3D,  but as this was a lot more old school  in so many other respects,  I never felt  it fit in, so  I swapped it with the old one from Schabbs 2000.  I was experimenting  with block objects that actually blocked areas, oil drums and surroundings as  in  level 5. I was  really  proud of this  level  once  I  had finished it.    CASTL E ASSAULT, LEVELS 8, 9,  16,  17,  19, 20 & 28    Though these were first released in Castle Assault, they were compiled for Quest for the General and The Wolf3D  Community Map Pack and as such, they are  noted there.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL  10 (#295)  Level name: Shine on You Crazy Diamond  Compiled: January 2007    Here we have yet another brown  marble  level, eventually turning into a mutant/brown concrete thing near the end. This  showcases  I was getting  more and  more into symmetric  patterns  in terms of lighting, object placement and wall spacing.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL  11 (#296)  Level name: Tramp  Compiled: December 2006    Obviously I still had a lot to learn in terms of spacing with ceiling  lights  in wider corridors. This is a large Spear stone wall  level mainly influenced by Wolf Skevos-Jones and Totengraeber level 23.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL  12 (#297)  Level name: Blowin' in the Wind  Compiled: December 2006    I think this signaled things to come –  I was  beginning to thin out in terms of ideas. This was why I padded Castle Assault  out with levels from Quest for the General (which at the time  had not  been officially released) – a silly and desperate  move, really, but the mod still went down well. The gray "cobblestone" concrete was  limited in its  usage –  I had to be in  the right mood for making a level with it, much like purple stone and (then) the Episode 5 blue wall.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL  13 (#298)  Level name: Gimme Shelter  ----------------------- Page 82-----------------------  
Compiled: January 1, 2007    This is a cozy softwood panel level, also featuring sandstone and brown weave dabbling. What I remember the most was  that I had fun making a laid-back kind of level, enjoying New Year's leftovers and just chilling out.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL  14 (#299)  Level name: Keep Talking  Compiled: January 2007    I like the design of this level, very much a straight take from the compact styles of Gary Ragland. There was a  point where  I  j ust churned out  levels like crazy, in the wake of All This & Wolf 3D  being finished. I was clearly heading for burnout.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL  15 (#300)  Level name: Watching the Wheels  Compiled: January 2007    In here, we have some clever secret door trickery for the  player to enjoy, only to find a couple of crowns in there. The  usage of the steel panel as more than a cargo/lab texture was  new to  me – though I had often played and loved old- school levels that utilized the steel panel as an ordinary bunker type of texture.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL  18 (#301)  Level name: House of the Rising Sun  Compiled: January 2007    Though the  blue wall and the  blue stone shared the same color they conjured up two entirely different atmospheres.  Nevertheless they suit each other –  I am also happy to see an increasing amount of marching guards. This level was a  favorite of mine at the time inasmuch it appeared as one of my two older levels in  The Bitter End.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 21 (#302)  Level name: Paint It, Black  Compiled: January 2007    This was another gem to come out of that last spark of creativity. I suppose there is a bit of E6L8 in there in terms of  texture usage –  I also gave marching guards a more professional shot yet again, as I had not used them that much.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 22 (#303)  Level name: Happy Together  Compiled: January 2007    This was again inspired  by Schabbs 2000 and  Totengraeber – especially the  latter's  level 23 as it also contained a secret  level and used the same Spear stone wall texture.    ----------------------- Page 83-----------------------  
CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 23 (#304)  Level name: Axis: Bold as Love  Compiled: January 2007    I seem to  remember playing either End of D estiny or Spear Resurrection or both around this time. I  had  never really  played End of Dest iny, at least not with  music and digitized sounds and certainly not beyond the first 5 or 6 levels – and  it  had certainly been a number of years since  I  had set foot in Spear Resurrection  beyond  level  10. I'm pretty sure  I played  these around this time as VDMSound still worked wonders for me. The gold  key area was definitely inspired by AReyeP.  The  rest of the  level was j ust another Gary Ragland spinoff.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 24 (#305)  Level name: The Piper at the Gates of Dawn  Compiled: January 2007    This features the opening area from Schabbs 2000 in stolen form as the gold  key room. The  rest of this  level took a long  time to make, as my inspiration often wore thin whenever I used the  brown stone texture as the exclusive texture.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 25 (#306)  Level name: On the Run  Compiled: January 25, 2007    Not wanting to  make the same mistake as with the  previous  level,  I chose a familiar texture that I apparently never tired  of then – the gray brick. This  level was  primarily inspired  by Episode 6, with some of the usual Gary Ragland flourishes.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 26 (#307)  Level name: Slow Cheetah  Compiled: January –  February 2007    I don't know  how well  I fared using the  purple  brick texture here.  I was also using  blood, bones and debris way too  much  and in  pretty much any  level I made. It just got too  much in the end. This features a quick exit with the silver key, and  I  suppose the AReyeP  hung  in the air here –  but it's still too stuffy, in  my opinion. This  is  not one of the better ones from  this mod.  It was during this time All This &  Wolf 3D got released, but with so many levels already finished for this mod, I  was not sure when or how to release it. Eventually I panicked, and padded the remaining level spots out with Quest for the  General and The Wolf3D Community Map Pack  levels and released it two weeks after All This & Wolf 3D  hit the street.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 27 (#308)  Level name: One of These Days  Compiled: February 4, 2007    The white  panel from Spear is not suited for usage as a standard wall. As a small 3x3 "speed bump" it might work, but it's  too  plain and one-sided and everything seems to disappear into it. The  level itself is all  right, though – the secret  level  access was cheap and rushed, and it probably ended up this way because I had forgotten it was accessed from this level. I  ----------------------- Page 84----------------------- 
 remember being pretty tired when I made this level, having come home from a weekend out of town.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 29 (#309)  Level name: What's Going On  Compiled: February 5, 2007    It was during  making this level I replaced the daytime  landscape (which  I  had only used in Abandon 2: Purgatory! until  then) with the  nighttime landscape in order for it to fit the theme of this particular level. This was inspired  heavily by  Schabbs 2000 level 8 and Assassinate Hitler  level 2.  To this day I still believe it's one of the  best gray slime  levels  I have  ever made.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 30 (#310)  Level name: The Battle of Evermore  Compiled: February 6, 2007  Boss level    The new  bosses were  put together  by a fellow called  Bruno déo Virgilio, a Brazilian graphic artist. I don't think he ever  made a mod or anything, but  he was good with  re-coloring the original  bosses and giving them new, exciting twists.  Likewise  he was easy to talk to, very friendly and very punctual. So while the  boss sprites are quite  nice and interesting,  this  level itself is  rather mixed. There's a landscape area where  I assigned a different floor code to a marching guard so  that he would never react – so that was  my  The Final Solution/ Chokage  homage – after I had made this level I remember I  wanted my future levels to have more depth, more edge and "weirdness" and more off-the-wall styles, but it never  materialized, secret level 35 excepted.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 31 (#311)  Level name: Carouselambra  Compiled: December 2006  Secret level    Though this contains  my worst treasure  placement since the days of  Operation Achtliebe,  it also owes a lot to the  more  symmetric approaches  I would follow  in the future. The  idea of a secret level using the checkerboard texture was lifted  from Chemical Warf are  level 40.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 32 (Originally Wolfenstein 3D, Episode  1,  Level 1)  Level name: Show Biz Kids  Secret level    This was  made immediately after  level 13, the  level from which it was accessed. I pulled this  E1L1 impression off better  than the horrendous Project W olfgeist-one. There are some  nice additions, including secret doors  I  had always wanted to  be there since playing Wolf early on.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 33 (#312)  ----------------------- Page 85-----------------------  
Level name: No Reply  Compiled: January 2007  Secret level    I knew that I would  be using  Hans Grosse at one  point or another, so I never replaced  him. This  level gets old pretty fast,  and in hindsight it was a cheap move,  but I was still having issues filling out secret level slots with worthwhile ideas.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 34 (#313)  Level name: White Man  Compiled: January 2007  Secret level    I was quite  proud of this at the time  I  made it. Obviously the symmetric approach, floor lamps and  blue wall usage owes a  lot to AReyeP  but I suppose Ariel is in there somewhere too. The  maze  part was a throwaway, but I still think this level  comes out on top as being pretty good.    CASTL E ASSAULT,  LEVEL 35 (#314)  Level name: The End  Compiled: February 8, 2007  Secret level    This was one of my first thoroughly odd  levels. I had always wanted to  make odd Wolf  levels while still retaining a nod to  the original game, heavily  inspired  by Chokage and stuff like Temporary Insanity which was not weird as such, but more  intelligent and interesting. However, I am a staunch believer that odd levels belong only in mods with the original  atmosphere present. Chokage is a bit of an exception, though it still retains many original wall textures, sprites and  guards. The ultimate proof of odd levels not going well outside the original game is Project Wolfgeist's level 27. This  level  was the  last  level I made for Castle Assault.  In only seven or eight weeks  I  had  pulled off a mod which got me off the  colossus wagon of All This &  Wolf 3D – in hindsight, I should have shelved it and made more levels for it later on. But I  wanted this mod out so bad, so I padded out the remaining slots with then-unreleased Quest for the General levels and  additions to The Wolf 3D Community Map Pack and released it a mere 16 days after All This & Wolf 3D.  Nevertheless,  people liked it, I know Dean is a big fan of the mod, but once this was finished, I took my first long  break from level  making, the first actual prolonged break since  I started, which at that time  had  been two and a half years.    Map of the Month Contest, August 2007  Released: September 1, 2007  Compiled: August 2007    MAP OF THE MONTH CONTEST, AUGUST 2007, LEVEL 1 (#315)  Level name: Facing Hell  Compiled: August 2007    All my community efforts are summed up in  Odds and Ends, except this one. This is solely because of the coding  ----------------------- Page 86-----------------------  
involved, which includes a switch operated secret door and many other things I found hard to "translate" into the more  down to earth approach of the rest of Odds and Ends. I made the level in August, but recall little of doing so, but I  enjoyed it immensely and did try and coax Dean into coding a switch operated secret area feature into my then-current  project, NovoWolf.    Quest for the General  Released: September 11, 2007  Compiled: August – September 2006    QUEST  FOR TH E GENERAL,  LEVEL 1 (#316)  Level name: On the Road  Compiled: August 4, 2006    After screwing up  Wolfram, I felt I owed it to Dean to still collaborate on something. So he built me this EXE, which  planted my feet firmly on the ground after having toyed with the crazy, limitless All This & Wolf 3D for roughly 9  months,  on and off. During the summer of 2006 I visited Germany for the first time, and inspired by its vastly different history and  geography, I put together a sort-of alternate history storyline which planted a nascent Nazi regime in the middle of  Germany, between the American sector and the Soviet sector. The fact that this was inconceivable apparently did not  occur to me! I did various things with the project over the course of August, but somewhere in the middle I just got  bored, and went back to All  This & Wolf 3D full time.    In early 2006 I started a thread on the DieHard Wolfers' forums, asking if anyone would be interested in making a  community map set. This was still in post-End of Destiny times where map sets and using nothing but the original  material held little interest. I then started my own map set, the outcome of which was slotted into the 40-level version of  All This & Wolf 3D . However, later on, several people showed their interest and the community project commenced. The  Wolf 3D Community Map Pack was released two weeks before Quest for the General, terrible timing from my side as  many levels from this mod appears there, and while writing this anthology I had to do some research to find out where  these levels originated. I had way too much on my plate in 2006, it seems.    I made this level inspired by ack, WLHack and Brian Lowe. All made levels far removed from my Gary Ragland ideas I  usually came up with at this time. As an opening level, it was fun to play and I enjoyed making it. It appeared in  aforementioned map pack as E6L1.    QUEST  FOR TH E GENERAL,  LEVEL 2 (#317)  Level name: Gone Wild  Compiled: August – September 2006    I wanted to use a variety of textures, and often opted for an unorthodox ceiling color to go with them. The level's  structure itself is not that bad, but it becomes a bit predictable and tedious. There's an inaccessible room here containing  a cartoon Ringo Starr, an easter egg of sorts that didn't work. Around this time I was listening to The Beatles more than  any other group, and had done for a while.    ----------------------- Page 87-----------------------  
QUEST  FOR TH E GENERAL,  LEVEL 3 (#318)  Level name: Splendid!  Compiled: August – September 2006    Aside from the oil drum peek/gold key room being lifted from Ariel, the rest of the level was made free-form without any  thought of what should happen and how object and guard placement should be carried out. This was not a clever  approach for me, and levels like this do not sit well with me anymore. That said, it is still a playable level.    QUEST  FOR TH E GENERAL,  LEVEL 4 (#319)  Level name: Prison-o-Rama  Compiled: August – September 2006    This continued the free-form approach, and it plays very differently from most of the levels made around this time for All  This & Wolf 3D. In a way it was healthy having these two different environments to play with, but most of the levels for  this mod I do not look back at with fondness.    QUEST FOR THE GENERAL, LEVEL 5 (#320)  Level name: Double Trouble  Compiled: March – April 2006    This level originally appeared as the opening level in the withdrawn All This & Wolf 3D v1.0. As it was withdrawn, this  level became an orphan, and so I adjusted it and slotted it in here. Looking back, it was a cheap move, but the level is still  all right. Again I was experimenting with a morass of different textures.    QUEST FOR THE GENERAL, LEVEL 6 (Originally All This & Wolf 3D, Level 4)    This level had already appeared as level 4 in All This & Wolf 3D  by the time this mod was released, but as it was  temporarily written out of its original running order, it was overhauled for this particular mod.    QUEST FOR THE GENERAL, LEVEL 7 (#321)  Level name: Many Places  Compiled: September 9, 2006    Again I used a variety of textures, some of which may not blend together that well. The overall structure of the level I  rather like, though. This was made for The Wolf 3D Community Map Pack where it appeared as E2L3.    QUEST FOR THE GENERAL, LEVEL 8 (#322)  Level name: Lightenin' Up  Compiled: August 23, 2006    This particular level was a straight take on the original Episode 2, guard choice excepted. There is a better and more  balanced variation in textures here than in other levels. It appeared, fittingly enough, as E2L1 in The Wolf 3D Community  ----------------------- Page 88-----------------------  
Map Pack with a proper column/landscape start.    QUEST FOR THE GENERAL, LEVEL 9 (#323)  Level name: Saxon Overkill  Compiled: March – April 2006    This level was constructed as part of a map set of my own in lieu of the community's interest at that time. It was then  slotted into the withdrawn All This & Wolf 3D v1.0,  eventually ending up here in addition to it being E2L10 in The Wolf 3D  Community Map Pack though it's absolutely not bonus level material. The opening room uses the holowall feature, a faux  pas in 2006, but I enjoyed the fact that it rewarded those playing on skill 4, as it accesses a room with health and ammo,  the wall having been made transparent by a skill 4 marching guard. The rest of the level uses a tasteful amount of varied  textures, but some of the ideas here get a bit old in the long run.    QUEST FOR THE GENERAL, LEVEL 10 (#324)  Level name: Gunspasm  Compiled: September 13, 2006    This level was done tongue-in-cheek, though it took a few false starts for me to get going. I remember I started it late  Friday evening coming home from a drinking session, then working on it over the next few days. It also featured in The  Wolf 3D Community Map Pack as E2L4.    QUEST FOR THE GENERAL, LEVEL 11 (#325)  Level name: What'd I SA  Compiled: September 4, 2006    This is a monstrous, free-form brown weave level with other brown textures interspersed. It plays rat her well. This was  originally constructed for The  Wolf 3D  Community Map Pack, where it appeared as E2L2. I always felt the brown weave  was a perfect match for Episode 2-inspired levels. I tried spicing up the mod by adding Zach Higgins' SA guard in place of  the mutant, but nevertheless, I hit a dry spell as All This & Wolf 3D  again stole the show for me. This mod just got in the  way. So I decided to cancel it, rather than put it on hold. I let Dean down. I let Dean down big time, and only two months  had passed since the Wolfram disaster. To this day I still feel bad about it.     The project itself did not go totally unnoticed before its release in September 2007, though. I first mentioned its existence  in the manual for Castle Assault, offering to send it to those interested if they contacted me by e-mail. Some people did.  A few months later, I packed together a zip file and sent it off to Brian, and it was officially released on September 11.  This was a pathetic release, and I regret it immensely. I suppose t he worst is that while it is titled Quest for the General,  the general does not appear as no boss level was ever made.    The Bitter End  Released: April 21, 2008  Compiled: October 2007 – April 2008    ----------------------- Page 89-----------------------  
TH E  BITTER  END, LEVEL  1 (#326)  Level name: Great Wide Open  Compiled: October –  November 2007    After taking a break in the wake of All This & Wolf 3D  and Castle Assault, I took some months off and kept a low profile. In  the interim, I did manage to make a handful of levels that ended up in community projects or oth er mods, but it was not  until July I initiated a new project together with Dean. This eventually became NovoWolf. Because of a slight coding bug,  it was shelved by October, but as my juices were flowing again I felt I needed to make the most of it and started a new  mod.    Again, Dean was responsible for the EXE which I viewed as a diet All This & Wolf 3D –  10 levels only, more than 399  objects and 149 guards, and no rush or hype or anything of that sort. This level was the first I did, it reprises the coloss us  approach of All This & Wolf 3D  and I was very pleased with it once it got finished. Gray slime and brown weave  complement each other quite well.    TH E  BITTER  END, LEVEL 2 (#327)  Level name: Safe Keep  Compiled: November 8, 2007    This originally appeared in a map set made for the Wolf Haven forums. For some  reason, I forgot about this entirely until  reaching the final stages of The Bitter End in  March 2008. It's a great  level, and so I opted to slot it in to my own mod.    TH E  BITTER  END, LEVEL 3 (#328)  Level  name: BJ Sees Red  Compiled: March – April 2008    This level was made after another long break from making levels, and it obviously shows. I still think it's playable, and I  went for a distinct Episode 1 feel with red bricks, dogs and water puddles.    TH E  BITTER  END, LEVEL 4 (Originally Castle Assault, Level 18)    This had already been released in Castle Assault. The reason why I slotted it in here was that I rather enjoyed it, but in  hindsight it was a silly move.    TH E  BITTER  END, LEVEL 5 (#329)  Level name: Trick n‘ Treats  Compiled: November 5, 2007    This was the first level I made for the Haven forum  map set. I did it on a whim, and I remember it I had some issues  getting started.  But once  I got going and  made it into "crusts" (the  brown weave is furthest out, then the wood  panel,  then the softwood "core")  I got  on with it with tremendous speed. I suppose  I felt a bit intimidated  by  people  like  Ron  whom I've always  been friendly with, but  he obviously had some skills  I could  never come close to  having. So  I played the  ----------------------- Page 90-----------------------  
colossus card again and pulled off a fun  level. As the  map set was  not released until September 2008 I of course used  my  entries in  my own  mod.    TH E  BITTER  END, LEVEL 6 (#330)  Level name: Down the Cave  Compiled: October –  November 2007    The idea for this came to  me in a dream. I would sometimes dream  I was  playing Wolf. This was a mod called WolfBel 6  (which  makes  no sense as Brian only made three of them), the ceiling color was teal and the  main textures were  purple  stone and gray stone. The guards were those from  The Final Solution and the  music playing was what I remember as  being a mix  between "Enemy Around the Corner" and  E1L10 from  The Golden Episodes, however in recent times it has  dawned on me that the music featured in the dream was that of All This & Wolf 3D  level 69 that starts playing once  Pretty Fly (for a White Guy) finishes, the remix of Hurt. This dream was in my head as I made this level – which itself was  pretty good. I always had issues getting started with  purple stone  levels, but as  I felt very inspired because of the dream,  it turned out pretty good.    TH E  BITTER  END, LEVEL 7 (#331)  Level name: Madness Manor  Compiled: November –  December 2007    I had tremendous fun making this level. The dog  room was inspired  by  Chokage, from which  I gathered that the  brown  stone texture could easily be used in any situation  rather than  merely clean-cut, executive castle levels. I progressed with  this, and yes, it is a bit monotonous and a  bit of a pastiche of Episode 6,  but it was fun to  make. This was the  last  level I  did for the mod before taking a break that lasted almost four months. I made  levels in the  10 slots at various times as  ceiling colors were predetermined. I remember starting up a  level at  level spot 5 a couple of days after this which  I had  finished about a third of or so  before  I deleted it and decided to take a long break.    TH E  BITTER  END, LEVEL 8 (#332)  Level name: Old and Grey  Compiled: November –  December 2007    I remember Dean  mentioned this as his favorite  level from the  mod, and  I think I agree with him. I was  playing End of  Destiny again when  I made this, and AReyeP's ideas stuck, but I was still very much  hooked on Gary  Ragland. Its original  black ceiling color came from my past experience with All This &  Wolf 3D level 55 in which an otherwise  normal-looking  level can suddenly turn ominous. This was  later reverted to standard dark gray as level 10 got a black ceiling color near  the end, which I in hindsight regret.    THE BITTER END, LEVEL 9 (Originally ALL THIS & WOLF 3D, Level 59)    This had already been released in All This & Wolf 3D. The reason why I slotted it in here was that I rather enjoyed it, but  looking back it was a silly move.    TH E  BITTER  END, LEVEL  10 (#333)  ----------------------- Page 91-----------------------  
Level name: The Bitter End  Compiled: March – April 2008  Boss level    I look at this particular  boss  level as  pretty much the  best I have ever done. As the entire mod was  based on  Episode 3,  the utilization of Hitler ghosts  here (and in other  levels) was  legitimate, in my view. There's a holowall feature  here in the  flat elevator, which may come across as a  bit odd, but I felt like doing it at the time. There's also a Commander Keen  Easter egg, also seen in All This &  Wolf 3D  level 69 originally extracted from Doom. This  level goes through all kinds of  textures and emotions, and eventually you encounter  Hitler himself.  I am  proud of this level and of this  mod. It showed  that I still had  lifeblood in  me and that I did not have to  release everything  I had  lying around  merely to  prove a point. I  am of course talking about NovoWolf, which did not see release until late 2009.    W.O.L.F.  Released:  December 4, 2008  Compiled: May 11 –  November 28, 2008    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 1, LEVEL  1 (#334)  Level name: The Escape  Compiled: May 11, 2008    Out of the  blue, three weeks after the  release of  The Bitter End,  I felt like doing a true-to-life Wolf  map set. Of course, I  ended up spicing  it up slightly  near the end, but the skeletal idea was still very much an original map set. This  level was  the first I did for it. I utilized daytime landscape and vines, something taken from Confl ict in the Fatherland.  For an  opening level, its size was quite  big, but I still had fun  making it and got a lot of positive reviews when it got released  seven  months  later.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 1, LEVEL 2 (#335)  Level  name: Castle Keep  Compiled: May 18, 2008    The skeletal idea of this was  laid down immediately after playing through the  previous  level.  But after a while, I looked at  the clock and it was suddenly the middle of the night.  I was tired, of course, as it was a  Friday. The gray stone design  appealed very  much to  me, and  I just went with that Episode  1 flow. I finished it off the following week. This was  probably  the first Wolf project I ever did where  I did  not force myself to do anything  I did  not want, and  let myself take as  much  time as I needed – in that way,  levels came more naturally and concise.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 1, LEVEL 3 (#336)  Level name: Tricky Brix  Compiled: May 20, 2008    I liked using the  red  brick texture  in a more calm way than  I had done with All This &  Wolf 3D. The steel panel area was  inspired by AReyeP.  I suppose this  mod owed  more to  BJ Rowan and AReyeP than Gary Ragland, which was  nice for a  ----------------------- Page 92-----------------------  
change.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 1, LEVEL 4 (#337)  Level name: Decay  Compiled: May 24, 2008    Though this looks a lot more  like  Episode 2,  I always thought it was all right to  mix gray slime wit h  Episode  1 as the  texture (along with gray stone #3 and its sign) is included in the VSWAP of the shareware version. The maze  here is  not  overkill or annoying, and  retains a nice, refined slimy feel while  not being too overtly decorated.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 1, LEVEL 5 (#338)  Level name: Klassic  Kastle  Compiled: June  16, 2008    I was  messing around with wood  panel and  managed to  make a nice, little  Episode  1 type  level. Of course, after "lifting  the ban" on using only Episode 1 textures in this episode, I spiced it up with brown marble and brown weave. I still think it  works, though.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 1, LEVEL 6 (#339)  Level name: Cold Steel  Hall  Compiled: June 22, 2008    I  had always wanted to  make a stuffy steel  panel level with the only relief being open spaces and daytime  landscape. I  think I pulled it off here.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 1, LEVEL 7 (#340)  Level name: Purple Relics  Compiled: June 2008    This was originally done with the gray concrete "cobblestone" texture –  I  had added all walls from Spear  before  removing them a few months after as  I wanted to emphasize the original Wolf more . Either way, this  level is a bit  repetitive, as  my previous experiences with purple stone were mixed. I was getting heavily into aesthetics and symmetry  here.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 1, LEVEL 8 (#341)  Level name: Blue Moves  Compiled: June 2008    The opening  room was  heavily inspired  by Assassinate Hitler  level 8. But whereas its opening  room is  more fluid and free- form, this was very meticulously measured and vertical. I did  not manage to create the effect I wanted, but it was still OK.  The remainder of the level uses the Episode 5 blue wall, and  I think I did a good job with it compared to  previous efforts.  ----------------------- Page 93-----------------------    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 1, LEVEL 9 (#342)  Level name: Grosse's Lair  Compiled: June 2008  Boss level    This originally used the Spear stone wall. It then got the gray brick treatment, which in  hindsight I think was silly. It should  have just been  regular gray stone. The jammed door traps were some of my first of the sort, and they have stuck with  me  ever since. A ReyeP was the  main inspiration  behind that particular trick.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 1, LEVEL  10 (#343)  Level name: Safe ‘n' Sound  Compiled: June 21, 2008  Secret level    This originally used the  purple  brick texture, suitable for a secret  level.  However, it got the softwood treatment  instead  when  I removed the Spear walls. It's a relief to see a secret  level with an actual  level in it, but whether or not it's too  unrewarding compared to its placement I'll  leave up to the player.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 2, LEVEL  1 (#344)  Level name: Old Castle I  Compiled: June 2008    Interspersed with  large 7x7 rooms is a crammed, vine-filled skeletal  level which  recalls  Episode 2.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 2, LEVEL 2 (#345)  Level name: Down Roots  Compiled: June 30, 2008    As  I did  not use the  brown  marble #2 variation at the time, I felt  it appropriate to  keep one Spear texture – the  brown  concrete, which  I always felt suited the  Episode 2 atmosphere. I pulled it off quite well, I think. The title stems from the  fact that I always called this texture the "root wall" and it was only later on  I found out its correct name was "brown  concrete".    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 2, LEVEL 3 (#346)  Level name: The Red Hell  Compiled: July 2008    Inspired by  Totengraeber this  level uses an idea of an  Episode  1 type  level suddenly visited  by mutants who eradicated all  guards  purely  by instinct. The  black ceiling again gave it a twist of evil.    ----------------------- Page 94-----------------------  
W.O.L.F., EPISODE 2, LEVEL 4 (#347)  Level name: Old Castle II  Compiled: July 2008    Though  I now think of the coupling of green ceiling and gray slime as old  hat, I suppose the vines  look a lot better with  the appropriate ceiling color. This  level is quite  large, and  I enjoyed  making  Episode 2 as I seemingly never tire of levels  where mutants  run the  business, the castle  looks all  horrible and  messy – ideas come thick and fast.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 2, LEVEL 5 (#348)  Level name: Bunker 10538  Compiled: July 8, 2008    This is a schizophrenic  level, with  part of it being a supposed cargo and the  rest  being an ordinary bunker. It contains the  odd officer here and there as I then felt that, had  it not been for the  mutants, the officers would've appeared in the  original Episode 2 – which is a silly thing. The name came from a song by the Electric Light Orchestra, which I listened to  often at that time. Also, this was the first level I made using a different monitor, a large, heavy 24" 4:3 from the late  1990's. MapEdit looked humongous, and it fueled inspiration. I would use this monitor until W.O.L.F. was released.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 2, LEVEL 6 (#349)  Level name: Chasing Cave  Compiled: July 2008    I always felt the  brown weave suited  Episode 2 and the general feel. I had  practiced this earlier. This  level is quite  large  but still holds excitement. It could  have  been  more  morbid had it not been for the  light brown ceiling. And  I am still not  sure whether or not dogs and mutants coexist  peacefully,  but they seem to get along well in this level. After all, they are  both beasts!    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 2, LEVEL 7 (#350)  Level name: Mutant Control  Compiled: July 2008    Here  I toyed with the idea of mutants, in addition to  murdering the guards, also  put some behind bars. So we  have guards  in  locked cells and guards  behind oil drums  in the passageway to the gold  key, further adding to the difficulty, as they can  fire at you, and you cannot pick up their ammo. I am pleased with the understated blood sprites, which I otherwise used  way too much in those days.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 2, LEVEL 8 (#351)  Level name: Old Castle III  Compiled: July 2008    Using the aforementioned monitor, I got inspiration in bunches, as I had  never seen  MapEdit  projected into such a size  ----------------------- Page 95----------------------- 
 before. The level pays tribute to Schabbs 2000  level 8 in its opening  room. The  black ceiling gives it a much darker twist,  and also allows inclusion for the  brown concrete.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 2, LEVEL 9 (#352)  Level name: Doc for Cover  Compiled: July 2008  Boss level    I was in the  mood for a nice, large  boss  level which used a lot of features  I personally thought was crucially missing from  the original E2L9. I was always disappointed there were  no actual battles or strides to get to the doctor's room, so  I made  this  level into somewhat an ordeal.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 2, LEVEL  10 (#353)  Level name: Guns on the Run  Compiled: July 2008  Secret level    This originally used the  Ramparts wall from Spear, complete with a fitting teal ceiling. As the Spear textures went out the  window  I had to  make something else out of this, so  I chose the Episode 5  blue wall which  I rarely used. In an Episode 2  setting it just does not fit. I suppose Spear Resurrection 's secret level with the treasure/ghost challenge which also  pays  homage to the  Ramparts  level was an inspiration, but I am not sure. Either way, the point of this was removed with the  Ramparts wall.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 3,  LEVEL  1 (#354)  Level name: Bad First Day  Compiled: August 3, 2008    I always found it a bit odd that t he original Episode 3 just started in front of a flat elevator. Here  I gave the impression  that BJ had to crawl through a sewer or tunnel or something to get there. Like the original Episode 3 this  uses the gray  stone #3 variation  heavily and the entire level is  pretty much a spoof on everything  Episode 3 had to offer. It was also  nice  being able to use the officers again without any confinement.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 3, LEVEL 2 (#355)  Level name: Steely Plan  Compiled: March – April 2008    Prior to  releasing The Bitter End and even  longer before this came about, Dean and  I had  planned to  make a joint Spear  map set the same way Ariel and ack did with Alliance of  Powers. We set out to do so, but it never  really materialized, and  so  I had a couple of  levels to spare. This was one of them, a scrapped Spear opening  level, remade into something  not  remotely resembling anything from the original Episode 3.  But  beneath a teal ceiling, anything goes, it seems. This  originally featured the drab concrete wall from Spear which I never liked.    ----------------------- Page 96-----------------------  
W.O.L.F., EPISODE 3, LEVEL 3 (#356)  Level name: Taninzania  Compiled: August 2008    Before  making the VSWAP  more traditional, this used the checkerboard texture which  had taken over the brown  marble  #2 slot. It worked quite well there, but it also worked out fine with  brown stone –  but  looking at it now it  looks  like  something from Episode 6 rather than  Episode 3.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 3, LEVEL 4 (#357)  Level name:  Easy as Slime  Compiled: August 13, 2008    This featured some trickery in that the elevator is  hidden, and the  main quest is only about one key. The structure of the  level was well-measured and there was  no senseless  padding out –  I was going all  in  here. E2L3 was an obvious influence.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 3, LEVEL 5 (#358)  Level name: Wooden Bloc  Compiled: March – April 2008    As with  level 2 of this episode, this was taken from a failed Spear map set. It's an OK  level, nothing  major though.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 3, LEVEL 6 (#359)  Level name: Second Hand-Gun                                                Compiled: August 2008    I like the  red  brick  part, but the softwood  maze seems uninspired.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 3, LEVEL 7 (#360)  Level name: Dead Simple  Compiled: August 2008    Using softwood yet again was  not a good idea, but the steel  panel part was fun to  make and this signaled things to come  – for later episodes  I would crank out several  levels a day.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 3, LEVEL 8 (#361)  Level name: Wolfie's Blues  Compiled: August 2008    This features an  unusually wide and symmetric opening  room. The  rest of the level was done on a whim, as I still had  issues with ideas for the Episode 5  blue wall –  nearly four years on.    ----------------------- Page 97-----------------------  
W.O.L.F., EPISODE 3, LEVEL 9 (#362)  Level name:  Hit the Hitler  Compiled: August 2008  Boss level    It had only been four months or so since  I had  made a Hitler  boss  level. Originally I wanted to  recreate a scenario akin to  that of his final days in a bunker environment but it got too tough when all you have to build it with are the original Wolf  graphics. Instead  I t urned it into an abandoned castle/ underground type of thing, and  I don't think I pulled it off that well.  The  placement of the  Hitler ghosts is questionable,  but compared to a vast array of my other  boss  levels it's certainly  acceptable.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 3, LEVEL  10 (#363)  Level name: Pacman Forever!  Compiled: August 20, 2008  Secret level    This is  my only true  regret of this  mod. I loved the original E3L10 when  I first played it  but I quickly tired of it soon after.  Recreating  it is impossible, and this  level is a disaster. I don't know how I didn't say to myself that this was downright silly,  but I felt restricted in that I originally wanted to follow original Wolf's rules and regulations. Besides, what can you do  with that music anyway?    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 4, LEVEL  1 (#364)  Level name: Rough Start  Compiled: September 2008    I love the sneaky placement of the silver key,  but I  hate the opening  room – the gray brick/vent texture viewable from all  four sides is a no-go – something  I only did there and  never did again with ample  reason. It looks odd and out of place.  That aside, it sticks true to the original Episode 4 in terms of décor and selection of wall textures.    W.O.L.F.,  EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 2 (#365)  Level name: Killing Floor  Compiled: September 2008    I'm quite pleased with this level, though it  might evoke  Episode 6 way more than  Episode 4 – the daytime  landscape fits  the lightness of the  brown stone  like a glove.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 3 (#366)  Level name: Jailbird Jam  Compiled: September 2008    Typical of my prison levels (and other  levels too) of the era, it is just  littered with  blood, bones and debris. It was  probably  ----------------------- Page 98-----------------------  
a little too over the top, but it came  naturally to  me. I had stipulations  regarding  prison  levels –  I did  not consider them  true unless you walked into a maelstrom of gore.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 4, LEVEL 4 (#367)  Level name: Brick Away  Compiled: September 2008    Off I went making the  remaining  levels, often once a day or even twice a day. I just cranked out  levels at an ever excelling  rate. I do  not remember much in  particular about this other than  I kept seeing the  multicolored  bricks as being quickly  built to close off areas that the  Nazis chose to  no  longer use – this  is why I  left an abandoned elevator passage inside  these, for example, something which is only visible  if you open t he  level in an editor or cheat and use no clipping.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 4, LEVEL 5 (#368)  Level name: Spectrum  Compiled: September 2008    This originally used the checkerboard texture  before  I removed it. The  large  room acting as a decoy/leading to the gold  key room was  heavily inspired  by AReyeP.  Perhaps  I was  playing either Spear Resurrection or End of Dest iny again.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 6 (#369)  Level name: Dynamo Disaster  Compiled: September 2008    This took a long time to  make, as  my inspiration began to ran low. Eventually I got a grip and continued, making it into a  large, wooden/brown concrete  level. I think it's rather good and  I like the secret door in the jammed e levator –  something  I picked up in The Final Solution.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 4, LEVEL 7 (#370)  Level name: Marble Play  Compiled: October 2008    Another colossus, this time inspired  by  Totengraeber  level 20. After falling in a slump, I started picking up the pace yet  again with this level.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 4, LEVEL 8 (#371)  Level name: Creepy Caverns  Compiled: October 2008    I was very, very pleased with this when  I  made it and still am to this day. It is one of the few  maze levels of mine which  really holds water and  plays without any annoyance or carelessness. Schabbs 2000  level 38 was the  main inspiration  behind this as  it both shares  its spot (E4L8) and the name came from there as well. I suppose you could call it a rip-off,  then!  ----------------------- Page 99-----------------------    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 4, LEVEL 9 (#372)  Level name: Ottomania  Compiled: October 2008  Boss level    This is very meticulously prepared, positioned and the symmetry took some time to  make. Though the foundation and  main texture is completely alien to  Episode 4, it still  retains the old gold  key/silver  key trick. Though it's rather small, it's  still an extensive boss level.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 4, LEVEL  10 (#373)  Level name: BJ's Bolero  Compiled: October 15, 2008  Secret level    The title  had come to  me long  before, but I never managed to  make a  level using that title  until I made this. This level is  rather cheap. It's awfully prepared, and the  part with the ammo  being spread over a narrow  hallway was j ust awful. The  only thing  I like about it is the fact that you're  presented with the end elevator head on. I always felt it fueled  determination to get there quickly.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 5, LEVEL  1 (#374)  Level name: Beer Hall Putz  Compiled: October –  November 2008    This  level couples cave and  residential ideas. I suppose the notable presence of barrels  make  up for the beer hall part of  the title. Putz is a Yiddish derogative, so I thought the title was quite clever.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 5, LEVEL 2 (#375)  Level name: Solid Rocks  Compiled: October –  November 2008    Around this time  I started tinkering with NovoWolf again, after roughly one year of inactivity. As  I could  pull off  levels at  an excelling  rate, and thoroughly enjoyed doing so, I didn't want to waste my time. Of course, designs would get a  bit  repetitive  now and then, but I still think that most  levels of this mod worked well then and still do so today. This gray  stone level just came naturally.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 5, LEVEL 3 (#376)  Level name: The Fuzz  Compiled: October –  November 2008    I cannot recall anything particular about this  level, other than  I obviously never tired of teal ceilings.  ----------------------- Page 100-----------------------    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 5, LEVEL 4 (#377)  Level name: Prison Boogie  Compiled: October –  November 2008    This was  probably done in the same sitting as the  previous  level. It is plainly a blue stone prison, with minor sections  being standard bunker fare. I have no recollection of making it, as is the case with many of the levels I popped out at an  alarming rate at this point.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 5, LEVEL 5 (#378)  Level name: Bunker Stroll  Compiled: October –  November 2008    The secret elevator was  probably added after realizing this  level had to  have one. It does not seem like the rest of the  level carries any sign that there may be something major hidden in it.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 5, LEVEL 6 (#379)  Level name: Castella  Nova  Compiled: October –  November 2008    This was  probably inspired  by Schabbs 2000  level 5. I  remember basking  in the fact that it only took 45 minutes to  make.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 5, LEVEL 7 (#380)  Level name: Sewicidal                                    Compiled: October –  November 2008    This is a king-size slime level spiced with some  multi-colored  bricks. There's an embarrassing  bug in the opening  room in  which a guard  marches through a door rather than towards it and opening  it. There must always be one space between a  marching guard and a door.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 5, LEVEL 8 (#381)  Level name: The Lurkout  Compiled: October –  November 2008    This particular leve l I don't recall too much about, other than it being inspired by Episode 6 and Spear Resurrection .    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 5, LEVEL 9 (#382)  Level name: She's the Boss  Compiled: October –  November 2008  Boss level    ----------------------- Page 101-----------------------  
As with the original E2L9, I felt E5L9 was too easy and quickly over too, so  I created an actual challenge in getting to  Gretel, who is very easy to defeat.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 5, LEVEL  10 (#383)  Level name: Purple Nurple  Compiled: October –  November 2008  Secret level    Here is a secret  level in which the  player has to hunt down secret areas in order to find precious treasure.  Totengraeber  level 92 was a huge influence on this, as it equally used the purple stone. The original E5L10 was a tremendous letdown, so  I felt I had to spice up this particular level spot.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 6, LEVEL  1 (#384)  Level name:  Entryway  Compiled: November 2008    I remember doing  my best to keep this episode  nice and clean, but give or take a minute and it was all  blood and bones  again.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 6, LEVEL 2 (#385)  Level name: The Citadel  Compiled: November 2008    I threw  myself into  making a big gray brick level, and succeeded. As with so many other levels made around this time, I do  not recall any specifics.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 6, LEVEL 3 (#386)  Level name: Gloomy Cavern  Compiled: November 2008    Since starting Episode 5, each level was done was made in one sitting. I did not take a break, close MapEdit or anything of  the sort, I just made one level at a time, uninterrupted. This  level was the first for a while in which  I took a break in the  middle of making it, finishing  it off the following day. It was  pretty refreshing to  have a cave  level filled with blood and  bones without being too cluttered. The secret elevator is also  respectably hidden  here compared to  past efforts in this  field.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 6, LEVEL 4 (#387)  Level name: Iron Curtain  Compiled: November 2008    What I remember the  most about making this was the fact that it only took 39 minutes. Whether or not that's a positive  ----------------------- Page 102-----------------------  
thing, I don't know, but I was just making levels on autopilot.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 6, LEVEL 5 (#388)  Level name: Brick House  Compiled: November 2008    Structurally this is very good. I like the  reward in the gold  key room – you won't have to  hurry all the way back through  the level to get to the elevator.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 6, LEVEL 6 (#389)  Level name: Das  Plaza  Compiled: November 2008    Looking at  levels for this mod and countless others of the  period, what I regret the  most  is that while  many of the  levels  are well done, there is still way too much ammo and hea lth. It feels as if the  player never  has to  battle for survival, which  is something  I often get to do in  mods that I love –  Totengraeber, Spear Resurrection,  The Golden Episodes, Chemical  Warf are  and so on. It would take me some time before finally realizing that I was  being way too generous in  my levels.  This one is certainly no exception.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 6, LEVEL 7 (#390)  Level name: Berlin Deep  Compiled: November 2008    I always loved the original E6L7 because of its schizoid  nature – it's  Episode 6,  big and  beautiful, but the tune is  murky and  dreary and there are cave mazes that owe a lot to Episodes 2 and 4. I tried to conj ure up that feel  here and  I think I  succeeded. The biggest shame about all these levels is the lack of proper amounts of marching guards.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 6, LEVEL 8 (#391)  Level name: The Last Resort  Compiled: November 2008    For the first time in a while, I took a break that lasted roughly one week before  making this level. I enjoyed  making  it –  some clever structuring  here and there – got it all from AReyeP.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 6, LEVEL 9 (#392)  Level name: Geniralia  Compiled: November 2008  Boss level    This owes a lot to E3L4 of this  mod, as dabbling in surrounded castles in an aesthetic  manner was  new to  me. I think this  is one of the best  boss levels  I ever did.  I am still happy that no  notably poor boss  levels appear  in this  mod compared to  ----------------------- Page 103-----------------------  
what could have happened.    W.O.L.F., EPISODE 6, LEVEL  10 (#393)  Level name: Wacky Wolves  Compiled: November 28, 2008  Secret level    This was a barrel of laughs to  make, and the play-trough was quite enjoyable too –  I still think I should have made a more  conservative secret level instead. Of course, once the ceiling color is pink, it is hardly going to turn into an AReyeP-type  ordeal. This was the last level made for this mod. It had taken me roughly six months to complete this, and it was  released on the eve of Abandon 's fourth anniversary. It was well received and I enjoyed making it.    Endlösung  Released:  May 31, 2009  Compiled: March 20 –  May 4, 2009    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 1,  LEVEL  1 (#394)  Level name: Start Me Up  Compiled: March 20, 2009    I do not remember much about making this  mod, and I always suspected it was because of burnout. Even though I  managed to make 35 levels in six weeks, I often felt it hard to start and finish a level in one sitting.  I started up this  mod  after a three month break, and on  board with  me for the first time was  Ron, who  put together a good EXE for me to use. I  wanted to do episodes rather than having a seamless level flow, but I could not see myself churning out 60 levels for it, so  I shortened it to 5 levels per episode with no secret levels. I made this  mod on  my newly acquired Windows Vista with a  widescreen  monitor,  meaning  I  had to do all of my level  making and play testing in  DosBOX and in windowed  mode which  got tiring after a while. That also had a lot to do with the fatigue surrounding this mod. I used bosses I had never used  before, downloaded from MajikMonkee's Image World. I also replaced the Hitler ghost with a flamethrower guard.    The opening level owed a lot to  Totengraeber's opening level, but the original Spear also played a part. Around this time I  wanted to make an actual Spear map set, as all my mods were made for Wolf, so I suppose the influence hung in the air  in some of the levels. A failed Spear map set, Hard Cell, was put together just after this mod's last level had been made.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 2 (#395)  Level name: Honey Roll  Compiled: March 22, 2009    This is a fine level. The white  marble texture came from some obscure old wall  pack or something. It was fun  experimenting with a texture that bright that wasn't a lab feature. The general structure of this level, especially the  gold key area, is pretty good.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 3 (#396)  ----------------------- Page 104-----------------------  
Level name: Silvio  Compiled: March 22, 2009    This was done immediately after the previous  level. Conflict in the Fatherland was an inspiration, but other than that it  is just an average level.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 4 (#397)  Level name: Cocaine  Compiled: March 23, 2009    I think I was feeling OK with the fact that not all  levels  had to  be  humongous to be acceptable, hence the scaled-down  size of this.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 5 (#398)  Level name: Setting Me Up  Compiled: March 24, 2009  Boss level    This is a sub-par  boss level with questionable usage of the  purple stone. As a comfort, there is at least some sort of  struggle in order for the player to get to the boss, and a secret door must be opened in order to get to the end jump. I  think I hoped it would make this level interesting.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL  1 (#399)  Level name: Revolution 1  Compiled: March 27, 2009    This  level was  heavily inspired  by the opening  level of  The Final Solution. The checkerboard texture, an old stalwart from  the All This &  Wolf 3D days, was prominently featured.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 2 (#400)  Level name: Sad Songs  Compiled: March 28, 2009    I dug the  Nazi signs on the softwood  panels, but I cannot remember where they came from originally. This is a fine  level  nevertheless.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 3 (#401)  Level name: Immigrant Song  Compiled: March 29, 2009    The cheap flamethrower area aside, this is a good  level with an acceptable and tastefully decorated  maze area.  ----------------------- Page 105-----------------------    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 4 (#402)  Level name: Knock Me Down                                              Compiled: April 3, 2009    The  large gold  key area was inspired  by Schabbs 2000 level 16. This couples  Episode 4 and  Episode 6 ideas quite well.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 5 (#403)  Level name: Porterville  Compiled: April 3, 2009  Boss level    In terms of size and overall décor I am quite  pleased with this  boss  level. The storyline was done on the spot, and  I am not  too sure where the 30's theme with the title screen, the font and the "Jazzin' Them Nazis" intro idea came from.  It all  seems a tad cheesy in  hindsight. But it was fun using some  new  bosses for a change.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL  1 (#404)  Level name: Suspicion  Compiled: April 5, 2009    This was a nice  little  level, quick to  make, quick to play. The  residential area is  nice, and the green  plants in the  prison  area came from BJ  Rowan.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 2 (#405)  Level name: Tight A$  Compiled: April 5, 2009    This was done immediately after the previous  level. This may explain the rather plain designs. The  Hitler ghost  replacement, the flamethrower guards in the old  blue SS uniform,  I would never use today.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 3 (#406)  Level name: Whiskey Man  Compiled: April 6, 2009    The ghost of Castle Assault levels 23 and 29 came back to  haunt me.  I suppose they drove the inspiration for this  level, a  desolate Episode 2 type of thing with numerous narrow passages. The peculiar ending was inspired by Fuchsenstein.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 4 (#407)  Level name: Black Sabbath  Compiled: April 9, 2009    ----------------------- Page 106-----------------------  
This level balances numerous textures quite well; blue stone over the Episode 5 blue wall and then into standard gray  brick fare.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 5 (#408)  Level name: Whispers  Compiled: April 9, 2009  Boss level    This is a short and concise  boss  level made j ust after the previous level. Compared to various other boss levels I have  done, it is pretty respectable.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL  1 (#409)  Level name: Idiot Wind  Compiled: April 12, 2009    This is a nice level containing a dog/skeleton/cage area not littered with  bones and  blood for a change. I think Gary's  Episode Four was an inspiration for this.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 2 (#410)  Level name: Captain Jack  Compiled: April 12, 2009    The opening area was inspired by Dark Dungeon II E6L2. The  rest of the  level is quite spacious  but not tiring. This is a  good level considering  I had made another one just  before it.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 3 (#411)  Level name: Stand  Compiled: April 12, 2009    I was always afraid to  place guards next to locked doors in fear that they might open them, resulting in a rather weak  opening room. I like the Lost Episodes cornfield texture though. It  had  been a while since  I had last used it.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 4 (#412)  Level name: Maybe Your Baby  Compiled: April 14, 2009    Here's a rather large purple stone  level. Looking back, I am impressed by its size, as I still had issues getting started on a  level using this particular texture.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 5 (#413)  Level name: The Rising  ----------------------- Page 107-----------------------  
Compiled: April 14, 2009  Boss level    This is by far my most embarrassing level since the Possum Trot era, perhaps excepting some cheap maze -only levels I  did shortly after. There is no imagination, no sense of either relief or struggle, it's just a pathetic excuse to  place a boss  and get it over with.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL  1 (#414)  Level name: Penny Lane  Compiled: April 16, 2009    This is a cozy opening level. Obviously, burnout was impending, as I keep seeing larger rooms with lesser sprites,  repetitive guard placement and cheap, autopilot type decoration.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 2 (#415)  Level name: Sixty Years On  Compiled: April 17, 2009    This is a checkerboard giant,  bringing up  memories of the already then-ancient All This &  Wolf 3D. As with most other  levels of this mod I have little or no recollection of making it.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 3 (#416)  Level name: Cover Me  Compiled: April 18, 2009    Obviously this was inspired  by E2L3 – and is a quite good gray slime  level. I'm still  not too  keen on that silly flamethrower  guard, but it made up for my lack of ideas to more exciting regular guard placement.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 4 (#417)  Level name: Love Street  Compiled: April 18, 2009    Two varieties of wood, marble, cornfield and brown stone all  neatly fitted  beneath a spicy brown ceiling. It's a  pretty  good level. I just don't think the "Puttin' It to the Enemy" tune fits it at all. And as with so many other levels of this era,  there are way too many food and ammo pickups.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 5 (#418)  Level name: Back in Black  Compiled: April 18, 2009  Boss level    ----------------------- Page 108-----------------------  
As this was the third level done in a day it of course got cheap as  hell. I was still very much a novice when it came to  handling bosses for every 5 levels. Perhaps this is why I never could get my head around a proper Spear map set.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL  1 (#419)  Level name: Innuendo  Compiled: April 20, 2009    This j ust confirms  my  paranoia with guards  being close to  locked doors –  I mean, it's almost ridiculous!  I like the  level  though. It features some nice designs different to most of those from this mod.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 2 (#420)  Level name: Song for Guy  Compiled: April 27, 2009    This  level signaled what was to come in the  latter half of 2009 with the  Wolf Overkill debacle and the fact that each and  every  level had to be extremely huge to  be accepted  by me. The tune had nothing to do with Wolf or gaming or anything  –  it is  Elton John's "I Need You to Turn To", a favorite of mine. Honestly, it does not fit in a Wolf setting at all, as it is a  gentle ballad.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 3 (#421)  Level name: Water of Love  Compiled: April 28, 2009    This  level  has some  nice ideas  like the opening  room and the  1x1 locked door passage. Again there's heavy usage of the  checkerboard wall. I think both ack and AReyeP influenced this, but I don't know if it shows. Those guys know  something about guard placement I am still trying to master.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 4 (#422)  Level name: The River  Compiled: April 29, 2009    Here we  have another titanic level, this time using the Spear stone wall. It ends up in a crammed up steel panel room  though.    ENDLÖSUNG, EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 5 (#423)  Level name: The Last Time  Compiled: May 1, 2009  Boss level    The treasure in the  landscape area was a straight take from the super secret level from  Totengraeber. Other than that,  there are way too  many textures  in use  here –  I was j ust looking for a cheap shot to get out of this  mod and get it  ----------------------- Page 109----------------------- 
 released. I am not sure that the 5  levels  per episode idea was the original thought. Again, all things considered, this is a  fair  mod. Even if I do not remember much about making it, I am at least satisfied that it's respectable and that people  seemed to enjoy it as well.    After finishing Endlösung, I tried to make a Spear map set, entitled Hard Cell. It did not work out. Three weeks later  Endlösung hit the street, and I did not touch an editor until August, starting up what eventually became the unfinished  Wolf Overkill  project.    NovoWolf  Released:  December 2, 2009  Compiled: August 2007 –  November 2008    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL  1  (#424)  Level name: First Encounter  Compiled: August 2007    I am  proud of myself for this  particular mod. The  reason why is that instead of releasing  it unfinished or even deleting it, I  chose to shelve it and wait it out till the timing was  right and somebody could help  me. This was a wise decision, as many  now  rate this amongst my best work. It was the first time  I tinkered solely with  Lost  Episodes graphics and guards and it  was the first time in a while that I had animated objects, shading and an extra guard. I had a blast making it. It was  originally  Dean that did the coding. And what floored  us  both was the fact that, though  he  had never done that much  coding  before, the  new guard worked! Just like that! It was amazing. The first 13 or 14  levels were done during  summer/fall 2007  until we encountered some memory bugs. We sent it to  BrotherTank who could not  help  us out at that  time, and  I think it went around to various others. Either way it was for a while  permanently shelved.    Getting bored during the  latter half of 2008, while riding high on the creative juices of  W.O.L.F., I decided to finish off the  last levels as only a handful were  missing. I then discussed the issue with Dean, who again sought out coders who might  be able to help us. Shortly after this, I bought myself a new computer. I must have forgotten about this mod, as by  summer 2009 it was nowhere to be found. Had it not been for AlumiuN, the last person Dean sent this out to, who had it  backed up on some obscure hard drive, this mod would probably have been lost. At least the most recent levels and  graphics would have. So special thanks go out to AlumiuN.    By late 2009 everybody was well into this new thing called SDL which  I knew  nothing about  until  Havoc informed me  about it while coding for what would become Wolf Overkill. I was mad about SDL. It really opened up new doors for me.  Everything looked bigger and brighter. This made me see NovoWolf in a different light, as I had up until then rarely  played it, as the EXE was not functioning. Not only did Havoc fix the  memory bug which turned out to be  minor, he also  gave it a kick and a lift and  helped  me  put it out there. By then, more than two years had  passed since its inception. What  got  me the  most was the fact that levels  made  long  before December 2009 still turned out all right. That said,  I did strive  to change  my style and open up for other design ideas to conform to the  Lost  Episodes atmosphere.    Level 1 is your classic opening  level – a shady, foggy thing with columns guarding  nighttime  landscape, a truck/cargo area  and an actual castle/citadel type of thing. I had fun  making this, as it was all quite new to  me. Until August 2007 all my  projects since Project W olfgeist had  been with your usual original Wolf guards, walls, sounds, the whole  bit. So this was a  ----------------------- Page 110-----------------------  
nice bit of fresh air.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL 2  (#425)  Level name: The Cistern  Compiled: August – October 2007    I'm quite sure the  name of this level stems from the small area with  blue  panels and  pipes. One of the  lost levels of  Secrets of Off enbach  had this pipe/boiler room  kind of atmosphere, originally an idea from Barry Christian's Armageddon.  The  rest of the level looks fine to  me. I was still finding  my way with the  Lost  Episodes scenery. I still see bloody bones  where they shouldn't  be and so on, but I can live with it.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL 3  (#426)  Level name: Ballhaus  Compiled: August – October 2007    This goes through a  number of textures which works out fine in the long r un. Some of it was inspired very much by Ariel  and The Golden Episodes, which utilized a lot of Lost Episodes graphics.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL 4  (#427)  Level name: Pullin' Teeth  Compiled: August – October 2007    I was always afraid that the Lost  Episodes environment would demand a lot more streamlining in design and decoration  to make sense.  However, I could still experiment with sprites and textures as madly as ever without ending up with a  mess. I think ack was an inspiration for this, as it appears  pretty open and tough from the get go. The SS  behind floor  lamps  part came from  Chemical Warf are level 14.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL 5  (#428)  Level name: Count Down  Compiled: August – October 2007  Boss level    This level was inspired  by Wolf Skevos-Jones and Gary Ragland, and it features a nice open column part and an  outside/barracks part inspired by Operation Letzterschutz.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL 6  (#429)  Level name: Blastaway  Compiled: August – October 2007    There is some fine interplay  between the different blue textures  here –  I was quite  pleased with the standard  lights as  well. I always  liked animated sprites  but  rarely used them in my  projects as I felt I never used them appropriately.  Earlier on I also wouldn't be caught dead with anything that may have seemed a straight take from End of Destiny.  ----------------------- Page 111-----------------------    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL 7  (#430)  Level name: Dark Dungeon  Compiled: August – October 2007    This  level  uses the dark gray "dungeon" wall from Project W eltuntergang. The size of this  level  is  pretty good too – it adds  to the excitement of otherwise  long-draught dungeons, and is a favorite of mine from this mod.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL 8  (#431)  Level name: Wolfo Reversum  Compiled: August – October 2007    The  pseudo-Latin title j ust came to  me out of the  blue. The level itself also came out of the blue, but is a definite  landmark for me –  I was  progressing in terms of making levels, I was  really pleased with this when it came out and still  am. I felt rej uvenated  by using the  Lost  Episodes atmosphere. I always felt its steel panel was more believable than that  of Wolf. To this day I still haven't seen teal steel!    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL 9  (#432)  Level name: Pipeline Blues  Compiled: August – October 2007    The sad story behind this is that I  had originally made a large, lovely  level with tasteful and decent  mazes which you did  not tire of immediately,  but due to an actual crash, even though I did back up several times while making levels, I had to  start all over again with this. The  pipeline  part turned into this dreadful, random maze which  I remember tiring of when  I  had to play it through.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL  10  (#433)  Level name: Dead on Demand  Compiled: August – October 2007  Boss level    This is a pretty good  boss level. However, the usage of the chain gun guards  may be a bit over the top. The boss was  custom  made  by Bruno déo Virgilio, who also  helped out with  Castle Assault, which, when I made the first 14  levels for  NovoWolf , was my most recent project.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL  11  (#434)  Level name: White Room  Compiled: August – October 2007    It was great finally  having the chops to  pull off a hospital-based  level with textures and all (from  The Final Solution) for  the first time. I had tremendous fun  making these  lab  levels. The scientist, which was added flawlessly by Dean, was sent  to me  by Wolf Skevos-Jones as I asked  him via e-mail to  help out with a scientist guard  I wanted. I was amazed that he  would send  me such a perfect looking guard. This was  mid-2007. Years  later he would use this guard in Totenkopf  SDL,  ----------------------- Page 112-----------------------  
which he was probably already working on by the time he sent  me the scientist. Wolf was always friendly, incredibly easy  to talk to – a truly humble person with incredible talent.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL  12  (#435)  Level name: Toast n' Boast  Compiled: August – October 2007    Wolf Skevos-Jones was a clear inspiration for thes e lab levels. I also strived to make the hallways as meticulous and  realistic as possible, even if they did house mutants and nuclear material in bunches.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL  13  (#436)  Level name: The Wastelands                                            Compiled: August – October 2007    This  had  more of a theme to it in that it is a supposed  nuclear waste cargo. Again, it was a joy to  make, and I did my best  to put in every little detail I had always dreamed of making in a lab setting ever since playing  The Final Solution and Project  Eisenritter.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL  14  (#437)  Level name: Nuke-o-Rama  Compiled: August – October 2007    In  laboratories and  hospitals  I always felt like using the window sprite, though it should definitely have  been 3-D  dimensional in order to work out convincingly. It was after making this level that we ran into memory problems with the  EXE, and so I put the project on hold and instead started what would eventually become The Bitter End, not touching this  project for more than a year. I simply overwrote the EXE file when I received it, so between October 2007 and late 2009 I  was not able to play any of these levels.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL  15  (#438)  Level name: Ditch the Dittz  Compiled: October –  November 2008  Boss level    As  neither The Bitter End  nor W.O.L.F.  had any all-in  lab or hospital areas, I suppose that drove me to finish off NovoWolf.  By late 2008 it was j ust an old relic  I had  lying around with which  I couldn't do anything – the  EXE could  not run  properly  so  I never played these levels until Havoc fixed the EXE roughly a year after they were made.    So  I made this  level. This uses the "Control  Deck 17" tune from Chemical Warfare level 29 that I  have used  in countless  other  mods,  perhaps a bit too  much. This boss  level is  pretty good, full of suspense as a boss level should be. It was an  idea of mine from day one to have  Dr. Dittz ending this  part of the game with a real death cam scene that still did not  finish the game,  instead of the old thing where  he drops a key or whatever. This was one thing with which we  had a  problem in the original 2007  EXE. However, by 2009 and via the advent of SDL it had  become  much easier to do such a  ----------------------- Page 113-----------------------  
thing, and  Havoc  certainly knew his trade, so this all turned out perfectly. I did not have to make any compromises, which  was wonderful.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL  16  (#439)  Level name: Schwarzenborn  Compiled: October –  November 2008    This is supposed to  be a dank, cellar-like environment or a  muddy back entry to an old castle as there are truck rears and  so forth. The  murky castle  bit  peters out a little with the small hospital/lab  part,  however, but realism only dawned on me  when I wanted it to. This is  pretty good though, I recall  I had some issues getting started with these  last few  levels, but in  the end  I budged and got on with it. Not being able to play them at the time may have played its part.  Levels  17 through  19 are  pretty good and large compared to what I felt myself suited to at this time.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL  17  (#440)  Level name: The  Morgue  Compiled: October –  November 2008    This  level  lives  up to its name. The castle environment merges  pretty well with the  morgue/ hospital/laboratory feel, I  think. Looking at it now it seems a bit silly,  but in  late 2008 it  had indeed  been a while since  I had  made something with  the slightest  hint of laboratories or morgues.  The Final Solution's  latter levels were a huge inspiration  here.    NOVOWOLF, LEV EL  18 (#441)  Level name: Old Settlement  Compiled: November 16, 2008    This is one of my many attempts to  recreate the atmosphere found in  Totengraeber  level 13. I had fun making this;  it was  an entirely different atmosphere than that of the  previous  level.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL  19  (#442)  Level name: Ol' Castle  Compiled: October –  November 2008    Again, this is a large castle level with Totengraeber  influences. The level itself is a  pretty standard penultimate level.  I am  nevertheless pleased with it.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL 20  (#443)  Level name: Eisenwolf  Compiled: November 2008  Boss level    The  placement of the  boss  is  pretty unorthodox, but  I just thought to hell with it.  For some  reason  I also think this carries  the influence of  The Golden Episodes, a game  I had almost forgotten at that point though it was one of the first I played –  ----------------------- Page 114-----------------------  
it would eventually experience a renaissance with  me in 2012. This  level ended a mod  I am proud of,  I am glad it survived  and  I am most pleased with the fact that many people see this as one of my best works.    NOVOWOLF, LEVEL 21  (#444)  Level name:  Hitler's  Hell  Compiled: October –  November 2008  Secret level    This was j ust done out of the blue with  no inspiration or general idea.  I just thought by sticking some unorthodox objects  in here and there that it would work. We also  have Hitler ghosts which fall well out of favor with the  Lost Episodes  atmosphere and a pretty basic, hallway-laden  level. I am not proud of it, but it's there. The absence of  Hitler  made this  level even sillier. It's a comfort, though, that it's the only throwaway of this mod along with parts of level 9.    10 New Ones  Released: October 16, 2011  Compiled: August – September 2011    10 NEW ONES, LEVEL  1  (#445)  Compiled: August – September 2011    With the  Wolf Overkill project being on  hiatus, and excepting  my Episode 4 entry of the DHW SDL Mapset, it  had  been  almost two years since  I had  released anything by myself, making 2010 the first year this happened. It was via  Wolf  Overkill that I reinvented  my style;  I took new approaches to  level making and wanted to weigh  more on quality than  quantity. This was originally slated to  be a map set for the original Wolf,  but I had little patience to make 60 levels in  addition to Wolf Overkill. I felt that these  10  levels were good and interesting and deserved to  be seen. I remember I put  them in odd spots all over the entire 60 level slate  rather than j ust doing them from the top, with this originally being at  E3L1. It likewise carries a heavy Episode 3 influence.    10 NEW ONES, LEVEL 2  (#446)  Compiled: August – September 2011    Whether or not this would  have  been a part of a map set, I don't know, as I can't think of a suitable original  level spot  where this would fit. E4L6 perhaps? I am not sure. Nevertheless, it is a fairly large  level, with a slight tribute of sorts to  E2L5 with the well sheltering the  mutant.    10 NEW ONES, LEVEL 3 (#447)  Compiled: August – September 2011    This is fairly large and carries an  Episode 5/6 atmosphere. I like the  large, open spaces; I was still a  relative  newcomer to  areas not marinated in water puddles, bloody bones and whatnot. I'm also sure that this was an early effort of mine to  use  both brown  marble #1 as well as #2. I would usually replace #2 with something else, but I felt it was time I went all-in  with the original graphics this time. Since then  I've used  both  brown  marble variations.  ----------------------- Page 115-----------------------    10 NEW ONES, LEVEL 4  (#448)  Compiled: August – September 2011    I am fairly certain that this was  meant to take over either E2L6 or  E2L8, j udging  by the  red brick walls.  It seems to be a bit  rushed, but along with the gray brick texture  I always feel I need to go  large whenever I use the slimy walls.    10 NEW ONES, LEVEL 5  (#449)  Compiled: August – September 2011    I am  much  happier with this than  I am with the  previous  level. This sums up everything  I love from Episode 2. The  purple  stone was obviously too  much for me at that point, but I liked its  layout, so  I  used the  black/gray variation  I had otherwise  only used in Abandon way back. I think it worked out pretty good  here.    10 NEW ONES, LEVEL 6  (#450)  Compiled: August – September 2011    I'm quite sure that this was  my bid on  E2L6. It's vast, tricky, filled to the  brim with  mutants and was quite difficult, but I  had a policy, which still stands to this day: If I could complete the  level on skill 4 starting with a pistol and eight bullets, it  would get the stamp of approval from  me. This is truly an astonishing level, one of the  best  I have ever made (if not the  best) in a gray slime environment.    10 NEW ONES, LEVEL 7  (#451)  Compiled: August – September 2011    I know for a fact that this was slated to  replace  E6L5. I  had  never dreamed of pairing the gray slime walls with the  brown  stones/mar bles, leaving the gray slime with a dark brown ceiling, but it actually works.  I took this idea from Brian Lowe.    10 NEW ONES, LEVEL 8  (#452)  Compiled: August – September 2011    A fair bit of guarding and a quite  revealing starting  point makes this level somewhat difficult. It features a  handful of large  rooms and is overall quite clean – a far cry from the usual littering of blood, debris and puddles of water. This was either  made in the place of E5L4 or E6L7.    10 NEW ONES, LEVEL 9  (#453)  Compiled: August – September 20 11  Boss level    The idea of this level  is  pretty good,  in particular I like the interplay between  Hans and Gretel and the fact they drop  different keys. As a  boss level I remember I felt it was a huge improvement on  my part. It sort of marries the  ideas from  ----------------------- Page 116-----------------------  
Episodes 4 and 6 via Episode  1, and  I think the end result is one of my best boss levels.    10 NEW ONES, LEVEL  10  (#454)  Compiled: August – September 2011  Secret level    This  may seem a bit weak when compared to the rest of the  levels  in this game. However, it is a secret  level and  I still  followed the  philosophy that it had to  be strange and offer things unseen in the  regular  levels. Whatever the case, I was  pleased with this little mod when it first came out.    Spearfishwolfbones  Released: January 15, 2012  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  1 (#455)  Level name: Spear  Me Out  Compiled: December 2011    This  map set was constructed with the aim of making a full-on  map set for Spear. But as with previous experiences, I  found it quite unimaginative in terms of sprites and at the time I wasn't too keen on the dark green ceiling color. So  I  went the other way and created something  I  had wanted to do since the Abandon  days after playing Chokage –  make odd  levels in the original environment. Some turned out good and  playable and others were j ust for the sake of  experimentation.  Either way,  I learned a lot in the short process and started utilizing  many design ideas in  projects to  come.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL 2 (#456)  Level name: Antler & Ass  Compiled: December 2011    I wanted to  have small, odd  passages and unorthodox arrangements in  relation to guards and obj ects, and so I did my  best to lay down all restrictions I had put upon myself since Nazi Operation. Looking at it now, it's a pretty good  level, and  it was  probably the first time since the  Possum days where  I made  hallways that were 2 spaces wide  rather than  1, 3 or 5.  The  main difference from then to this is that this actually worked.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL 3 (#457)  Level name: Woof Woof  Compiled: December 2011    I remember I wanted a ridiculously tough opening, and so  I made one. I remember having issues completing it with the  usual 8 ammo start on skill 4 –  but for some  reason  I pulled through. The  rest of the  level is above average.    ----------------------- Page 117-----------------------  
SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL 4 (#458)  Level name: Knock on Wood  Compiled: December 2011    A  lot of wood textures  here. I was j ust freewheeling when  I made these  levels, and this  is why it took me only three  weeks to  make this and  put it out.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL 5 (#459)  Level name: Transformation  Compiled: December 2011  Boss level    Another one of my dislikes of Spear is that you are forced to come up with a boss  level for every 5 levels, and near the  end you need to make one for every 2 or 3. This easily drains one for inspiration. So  I am glad that I decided to  make this  entire  map set off the wall and unorthodox from the get go, because then you can j ust make anything and put a boss in it  and it becomes a boss  level.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL 6 (#460)  Level name: Hellbound  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    I chose the blood wall for the surroundings of this level, simply because it's blatantly  red and Spear level 6 is assigned the  red ceiling color. The level itself is  pretty good though, the two  blocks idea could appeal to  realistic  levels as well like  those from Batman.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL 7 (#461)  Level name: Thingumybob  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    For some strange  reason I wanted to  make a level with a deserted atmosphere, so  I did not bother with guards and  let  the  beyond 64x64 gray mush show, just to add some weirdness to it.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL 8 (#462)  Level name: Shoot 2 Thrill  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    This level borrows ideas from Ariel and AReyeP, and does not have much root in the whole off the wall premise of this  mod. The Episode 5  blue wall area containing the silver key was lifted from level 8 in  Time to Kill which was still to be  released.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL 9 (#463)  ----------------------- Page 118-----------------------  
Level name: * Purp *  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    As 2011 became 2012 I was hooked on playing  Unreal Tournament, the original 1999 Game of the Year version. I had first  played it as a kid, about a year after first playing Wolf, and so I had always wanted to  put some of that spacey, surreal and  extremely bloody atmosphere into Wolf. Doom also played its part. I made this  level very much inspired by those two  games. I don't know if that shows, but it's  nevertheless still a fun  play.  If this had a parallax sky, gun  bobbing, the whole  bit, my idea would come across in a more direct fashion.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  10  (#464)  Level name: Will 'Em All  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012  Boss level    This is a monstrous, disjointed level, but again that was the  point of the entire  map set. It had some good secret areas  and was fun to  play test,  but  looking at it from a more conservative angle it comes across as horrendous.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  11  (#465)  Level name: Hip 2 B Square  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    As the title suggests, this was  meant to be as quadratic as  possible, not realizing  how  many guards would  hunt you  simultaneously. But it worked out all right, created a sense of chaos, with a slight  nod to Schabbs 2000  level 15.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  12  (#466)  Level name: Quickie w00d  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    Though it is rather slight, there is substantial battle in the heavy presence of mutants.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  13  (#467)  Level name: Quick Brown Fox  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    This level had nothing to do with the overall theme of the mod. It plays really well and comes across as a light,  unassuming brown stone level.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  14  (#468)  Level name: Sit, Adele  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    ----------------------- Page 119----------------------- 
 The guards, pickups and wall decorations are  meticulously placed, a total opposite to the messier, more freeform designs  of earlier in this  map set. My only regret is that I did  not use  both stone wall variations in this  level; it must have slipped  my mind.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  15  (#469)  Level name: Flin Flon  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    This  level is OK and  more controlled than earlier efforts of this  map set, but as with all other  levels  I just wanted to go  nuts, so  I did forgot the brown marble variations, j ust as  I did  not do the stone wall variations in level 14. I regret that  now, but after all, it does not affect the level that much.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  16  (#470)  Level name: Big Cutie Mutie  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012  Boss level    With the advent of SDL, a new world opened for me; something I had dreamed of since making my first levels: T he fact  that you can  have enormous, spacious  rooms with tons of sprites and guards showing without any of them going  invisible. So  I milked that here and as it was a mutant boss  level  I decided to  make it extra tough. This shows a clear  Doom influence. Some ideas were also lifted from Abandon v0.0  level 4.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  17  (#471)  Level name: Pigbits  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012    This level is a pretty decent Ramparts level. There is a great vibe of both fun and quality in many of the  latter  levels  in this  set. I think the  main inspiration  behind this  particular level was  Executor's Spear Revisited.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  18  (#472)  Level name: SODding About  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012  Boss level    This was done out of desperation, just to close this short affair of madness and small and compact fun. I had never used  the  Death Knight  in anything before, the entire Spear franchise  has always been alien to  me compared to Wolf, so  I just  did it on a whim.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL  19  (#473)  Level name: Tempus  Fuck-It  Compiled: October 14, 2011  ----------------------- Page 120-----------------------  
Secret level    This was actually the first level made for the Time to Kill project.  Back then, the  red  bricks were the dank, cellar type wall  which is actually the stained glass  Hitler without the stained glass. I don't know who originally did it or  used it, but I recall  Chris  used it in All This &  Wolf  3D  level 69 in the main  room with the two softwood tunnels and the oil drums blocking the  elevator. I always liked it, and I  used it here, put some dogs in there, and did the AReyeP thing with wells  being  block  objects and decorative at the same time. It's a fair level, but it was  not overtly appropriate as a starting  level. By January  2012, it had been  replaced in Time to Kill for a while, so it was j ust lying around, and so I slotted it in here.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL 20  (#474)  Level name: Hip Revisited  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012  Secret level    The  purpose of this one was what level 11 would  look like once  BJ  had  left and some  mutants  had camped  here. The  concept is pretty interesting, but a bit on the cheap side as it was done in  10  minutes or so shortly before  releasing the  game. I enjoyed making it, though.    SPEARFISHWOLFBONES, LEVEL 21  (#475)  Level name: Happy New Spear  Compiled: December 2011 – January 2012  Boss level    You are sent here the instant you  pick up the spear. I always wondered why level 21 had to  have the same ceiling color as  level 18, so instead of using the  blood wall  here  I used the  brown concrete which fit the whole t hing an awful lot better. It  ends this map set, which I had a blast making, even if it only took three weeks and contained mainly short and odd  levels.    Time to Kill  Released:  March 20, 2012  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  1  (#476)  Level name: Sentry Entry  Compiled: October 19, 2011    In order for me to gain new inspiration after having made close to 200 levels for the failed Wolf Overkill project over the  course of nearly 3 years, I felt I wanted to do things differently this time.  I took a more  realistic design approach, and  wanted to streamline the colors as well. So  I made the slimy walls green rather than dark yellow, and almost every cyan,  purple or  magenta I could find was either discarded or made gray. I was quite  happy with it, and  I still think that Time to  Kill is one of my very best mods. This opening  level is quite tough even though it only features guards. For a slime level, it  is also much cleaner than anything I had released up to that point. It was a rather dry start compared to my other start  ----------------------- Page 121-----------------------  
levels, but I felt it was time for an actual challenge to open a mod of mine, regardless of how ordinary it may have  seemed in hindsight.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 2  (#477)  Level name: Blue Moves  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    This blue stone colossus contained marching guards, and I did my best to get them mar ching  between  rooms without  having to compromise the general design . It turned out pretty well.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 3  (#478)  Level name: Bunker Bust  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    Somewhere in this huge red brick bunker we get some secret area trickery that needs thought in order for the player to  get 100 % ratio. I have played numerous mods where I'd have to start the level over because of this, so I did not worry  about it. I was tired of giving in to public pressure regarding difficulty, and the growing fear of the warts-and-all policy I  always saw as healthy and natural.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 4  (#479)  Level name: In the Woods  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    This uses the castle/outside design  but the citadel consists of wood panel rather than stone or brick, which is quite  unusual but works out all right. It was fun to  make as it had been a while since I had made one of the sort, and the 3-key  solution here  really works out for the  better.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 5  (#480)  Level name: Verdammt!  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    This  level  introduces the death artifact. I had  never this particular item in any of my mods before, nor had  I ever used a  god  mode artifact. It was fun to toy around with these, and this  level complimented it all  pretty well.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 6  (#481)  Level name: The Waking  Edge  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    This level certainly does not cut corners. Even if it only uses one texture, the Episode 5 blue wall, I still think it works  out  pretty well. Obviously I was finally comfortable using that particular texture.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 7  (#482)  ----------------------- Page 122-----------------------  
Level name: Castle Complex  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    The  name says it all. This utilizes a classic castle design and features the Spear stone wall interspersed with a  brown  re- coloring of the familiar Episode 5 blue wall. I'm very proud of this  level. I was thoroughly enjoying making this mod.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 8  (#483)  Level name: Bleak  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    This  may very well be  my favorite of the entire  mod. I specifically went for bleakness, as the title suggests; everything is  gray, almost as if the player has  lost all sense of color. I used the angel statue  here for decorative effect and  personally  think I got away with it pretty good –  I always had issues putting this particular sprite to use, but it seems to work out  here. I had a field day making this and  I was thrilled with the outcome, as it summoned up the  bleakness  perfectly. There  is a god  mode artifact hidden here in a such  manner that there's j ust enough time to slaughter the insane amount of SS  guards  mauling you once you pick up the gold  key. Practically every situation involving artifacts was influenced by AReyeP  and my experiences with various artifacts in Spear Resurrection and End of Destiny.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 9  (#484)  Level name: Slaughterhouse  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    The usage of bloody wells was always difficult, as the head is obviously that of Hitler. Nevertheless, I could turn the other  cheek and use it as a standard, gory sprite  much as Schabbs 2000  used the skulls on stick sprite. I have  made countless  levels  using the gray slime walls, but this one is definitely one of the better ones.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  10  (#485)  Level name: Old Stalag  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    This  level  utilizes the  brown  brick, a re-coloring of the familiar red  brick. It is a prison area of sorts, and though it took  some time to really take off for me I think it turned out all right.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  11  (#486)  Level name: Dungeon Hack  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    I know of an old map set entitled Dungeon Hack, and  I always liked the  name. As  using it as a name for a mod would  limit  the expectations,  I chose to use it for a  level. Here  I merged the  prison cells previously only found on the blue stone walls  onto the  more familiar gray stone as well, making a prison area much  bleaker and dank than what you would  have with  your more colorful  blue stone walls. I'm also  proud of the  modified officer guard  I did for this  mod. I made him bald to  give him a tough guy look, and opted to give him a beret rather than a helmet for the very same reason, coming across as  ----------------------- Page 123----------------------- 
 a mercenary of sorts. My only regrets with this guard are the greeting and dying sounds, which become tiring after a  short while.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  12  (#487)  Level name: Jail On, Jailor  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    Here we  have a rather large  prison  level, inspired by BJ Rowan and Gary Ragland.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  13  (#488)  Level name: Fear's  Fortress  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    I remember this took forever to  make,  but it was well worth it. I like its design where it's split down the middle, its  vastness and the fact that this was a dank castle  level  placed on  level slot 13 as in Totengraeber. One of the five secret  levels  is also accessed from here, which makes perfect sense due to the level's size.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  14 (#489)  Level name: Right on Slime  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    I was finally balancing ammo and health in a less generous way, giving the player a better challenge. Furthermore, I was  also adding more guards and placing them in tricky situations, making it even harder to beat. In terms of design, I was  also branching out.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  15  (#490)  Level name: Dead Simple  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    With this level I was progressing further into difficulty and new, experimental designs. The corridor leading to the gold  key was a straight take from E6L1.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  16  (#491)  Level name: Tidy Hideout  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    I did my best not to litter my levels in blood, bones and debris, and I think I succeeded with this particular one. The re- colored Episode 5 blue wall, now gray, plays well with the traditional gray brick.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  17  (#492)  Level name: Marble Arch  ----------------------- Page 124----------------------- 
 Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    This is a pretty good  brown  marble  level. I remember it took some time to finish, but I was satisfied with the outcome.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  18 (#493)  Level name: FUBAR  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    As the title suggests, this  level is a difficult one. The silver key room shows  no  mercy whatsoever. The large open area  behind the silver  key door was inspired  by some of the  roomy areas seen in  Laz  Rojas'  mods  both for the Wolf and  Doom  engine.  I am still not sure whether or not the slime textures work with gray stone #3, though.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL  19  (#494)  Level name: Showdown  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    I enjoyed making this level, utilizing new wood panel decorative additions: wreaths and shields with swords. I re-colored  the latter from a texture I took from Schabbs 3000, though I have a feeling it first appeared in a Laz Rojas mod. The brown  brick wall compliments the wood panel rather well, I think.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 20  (#495)  Level name: The Long Walk  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    I remember the SS, whom you  must stalk and  not shoot, had a much weirder walk  pattern rather than j ust the straight  line, to confuse the  player, but in the end  I decided against using it – which was a wise decision. I remember Luke  Strauman's Area 51  had a level where you  had to follow a guard to open a door – otherwise you couldn't get in. However,  I placed a death artifact in the adjacent jammed elevator, so the player has a chance of starting over in case of shooting  the SS and saving.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 21  (#496)  Level name: Brick House  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    This is merely a red brick colossus, which plays rather well. I was still not that experienced in using marching guar ds, and  so guard placement may come across as a tad repetitive.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 22  (#497)  Level name: Castrum Humdrum  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    In keeping with the streamlined theme, the ceiling color and main texture is often the same color. I don't think it's that  ----------------------- Page 125-----------------------  
bad. This level features three radically different atmospheres in re-colored red brick, re-colored gray brick, both brown,  and the familiar Spear stone wall. I think it works out for the better.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 23  (#498)  Level name: Subdivisions                                        Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    This level is brutal in terms of difficulty. I had a ball making it and playing through it, even if it was ridiculously diffi cult at  times. It signaled things to come. AReyeP was a huge inspiration for this particular approach, and though the Hitler  ghosts may be a slight departure from the whole streamlined idea, they only complimented the gameplay for this  particular level.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 24 (#499)  Level name: A Mute Affair  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    Levels 23-28 are a straight take of Totengraeber levels 13-18, the obligatory mutant-only area. This fact makes this blue  stone prison more ominous in its look and feel.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 25  (#500)  Level name: The Void  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    The levels became increasingly more and more difficult the further the player progressed. In turn I think it's healthy, as  some of the most acclaimed mods, e.g. Spear Resurrection, End of Destiny and The Golden Episodes often has the  player  begging for mercy, especially on skill 4.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 26  (#501)  Level name: Toten Recall  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    The  Totengraeber level 13 influence is completely obvious here. The title says it all. I was pretty satisfied with this, and I  still feel that these mutant-only levels are amongst the best I have ever made.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 27  (#502)  Level name: Famine  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    This  particular level is inspired  by the concept of actual famine as there are no food  pickups. The only  health sources are  medical kits,  but I suppose the player will take to sucking  up  bloody bones  because of the  many mutants. It is an  enormously difficult level but it was fun to make, and it can be beat starting with only a pistol and eight bullets.    ----------------------- Page 126-----------------------  
TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 28  (#503)  Level name: Hard Cell  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012    Though this utilizes blue stone, used four levels back, it conjures up a different and more head -on difficult atmosphere.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 29 (#504)  Level name: Parallels  Compiled: February –  March 2012    This particular level was originally made for a map set, probably an embryonic version of  Thomas' Wolfenstein 3-D.  Once I had finished it, however, I felt that it may suit this mod better. It nevertheless still appeared as E1L5 in  Thomas'  Wolfenstein 3-D. I liked its slickness and symmetry, obviously inspired by Ariel.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 30  (#505)  Level name: Shields of Gold  Compiled: May – August 2010    This originally featured as level 38 in the failed Wolf Overkill project. I had long wanted to make a level with four corners  teasing the player, featuring either treasure or heaps of health and ammo. As a concept, this level works extremely well,  and though it is a checkerboard level, it was originally brown marble, which gave it a brighter sheen and a thirst for gold  and treasure.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 31  (#506)  Level name: Entrapment  Compiled: April –  May 2010    This originally featured as level 9 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project. I enjoyed making this level, as in mid-2010, designs  of this sort were new to me. It featured the saturated blue wall from  Totengraeber which suited this perfectly, this level  originally being an office. One of the rooms featuring floor lamps and tables originally featured desks and either filing  cabinets or different office sprites. Whatever the case, it still plays as a good level despite its different origins.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 32 (#507)  Level name: Good Ol' Time  Compiled: October –  December 2010  Boss level    This originally featured as level 86 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project, where it was Hans Grosse's level. I changed bits  and pieces in order for it to house all three Grosse siblings. I think it's one of my best boss levels. There's a very origin al  idea behind it and a reprise of each Grosse's environment as well. The name of the level is a mondegreen of Hans' well- known greeting.    ----------------------- Page 127-----------------------  
TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 33  (#508)  Level name: Stone by Stone  Compiled: September – October 2010    This originally featured as level 78 in the failed Wolf Overkill project. It is more or less just a modernization of the ideas  presented to me in the original Episode 1.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 34  (#509)  Level name: Clusterfuck  Compiled: August – October 2010    This originally featured as level 60 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project. I enjoyed the treasure stash presented to the player  the second he steps out of the elevator, though I must admit some of the designs tend to drag on a little bit, but as this  was made in a different state of mind than the rest of Time to Kill, it did not really concern me.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 35  (#510)  Level name: Slimeballed  Compiled: August – October 2010    This originally featured as level 62 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project. It is a tad on the difficult side, but still fun to make  and to play. On the way to the silver key, there's a send-up to both Operation Panzerschiff and Totengraeber's level 11  with mutants behind columns.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 36  (#511)  Level name: Beer Hall Putz  Compiled: April 2010 – July 2010    This originally featured as level 20 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project. In its original guise it consisted exclusively of the  gray concrete, or cobblestone, from Spear, and worked out pretty well. It still works out fine, but I must admit that a  texture as bright as the brown stone should be used with more manners than what I did here.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 37  (#512)  Level name: Bereft  Compiled: August – October 2010    This originally featured as level 67 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project. In this instance, I let go of the illusion that mutants  were just as much after the guards as they were after the player, and used them together with the standard guards. In  hindsight it makes the whole thing a lot more difficult, as all four guards have different running and shooting patterns.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 38  (#513)  Level name: Grand Junction  Compiled: August – October 2010  ----------------------- Page 128-----------------------    This originally featured as level 63 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project. In its original guise it consisted of two vastly  different parts, separated by a "checkpoint" of sorts (the room featuring the re-colored gray brick, now brown) with each  part being ruled by either the SS or the SA, historically known as enemies by the time of World War II. In this mod I  turned it into the old struggle between regular guards and mutants, which still underlines my point.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 39  (#514)  Level name: The Last Straw  Compiled: November –  December 2010    This originally featured as level 87 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project. The level is huge and features an explosion of  guards, and is a very tense penultimate level.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 40  (#515)  Level name: Confrontation  Compiled: November-December 2010  Boss level    This originally featured as level 90 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project, in which it was the last level, featuring Hitler as boss,  and so it has lost none of its original ideas. The  Wolf Overkill version was also a huge, chaotic checkerboard type of thing,  and though it is rather difficult it is nevertheless a fine boss level which concludes what is probably my best overall mod.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 41  (#516)  Level name: Lap of Luxury  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012  Secret level    I like the idea that you reward the  player in your secret  levels. As a player, I loved it when  I was treated to wild amounts  of gold in the secret levels  I found. Though it rewards the player rather much, it still contains guards and is overall an  acceptable secret level.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 42  (#517)  Level name: It's Yourself  Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012  Secret level    I wanted to create a strange, otherworldly atmosphere for this  level in  having  BJ kill himself. This was inspired  by Prince  of Persia, where the protagonist meets his  reflection in the final level. There are some  Hitler ghosts  here and there,  adding to the odd atmosphere, and of course the devastation in  killing yourself – one of my better experimental ideas.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 43  (#518)  Level name: Death Mute  ----------------------- Page 129-----------------------  
Compiled: October 2011 –  March 2012  Secret level    Though this level is rather small, it still very much makes the cut in that it offers difficulty as well as reward. I also  like the  gray stone #3 that I used here, as coupling this with  mutants as the only guard  brought back fond  memories of  Totengraeber  level 14.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 44 (#519)  Level name: Wine Cell R  Compiled: January –  March 2011  Secret level    This originally featured as level 95 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project, where it was a secret level that only featured dogs.  Here, it was converted into a wine cellar of sorts, as the dog food sprite was replaced by a bottle of wine, as no dogs were  featured. The marching patterns remained unchanged from the original dog-only level, which is a bit cheap.    TIME TO  KILL, LEVEL 45  (#520)  Level name: Crowning Touch  Compiled: April –  May 2010  Secret level    This originally featured as level 11 in the failed  Wolf Overkill project, in which it was a boss level featuring Trans Grosse. It  was slightly remade to include heaps of treasure, rewarding the player, but it maintained the same heavily guarded  atmosphere, not making it too easy. The original level also featured the Spear stone design, which works pretty well with  anything.    Wolf Overkill  Released: April 24, 2012  Compiled: August –  November 2009    The  Wolf Overkill  project, which has been previously mentioned, started at the end of the 2009 summer holiday. I was  in the mood for making levels again, after having experienced a three-month dry spell. I envisioned something in the  vein of All This & Wolf 3D : a grand concept of sorts. Originally I planned a 120 level set, encompassing all sprites and  bosses from Spear as well as those of Wolf, but in addition to copyright wrangling and risk-taking on that side of it, I  also had a hard time seeing myself, as a level maker as well as a player, to want to sit through 120 levels. Nevertheless,  a compromise was made with 100 levels, which is still quite off the wall. But Havoc and I got talking on MSN  Messenger, and as usual, Havoc's high standards with his coding rubbed off on me. At the time, I felt the levels were  fun and exciting, but it did not take me too long before I was caught in a repetitious, tedious cycle of making level  after level. Sometimes I could make 5 levels a day, all of them being humongous, all things conside red.    In addition to the feature of one hundred levels, it also featured more interesting coding than anything I had played  around with since Project Wolfgeist. There were radioactive puddles that caused you to lose health, for which you  could acquire a radiation suit, as in Doom. Also, oil drums as well as nuclear barrels could be explosive, there were  ----------------------- Page 130-----------------------  
collapsing columns, a motorbike and even exploding toilets! Furthermore, many new enemies were added.    After running dry in late 2009, I got fed up with the  project and Wolfing in general, and I just could not be bothered  with anything in terms of making levels until the spring of 2010, where I in a bold move deleted all the 97 levels I had  made up to that point and started over. I could have finished off the  remaining 3 and released the damn thing, but it  was just not up to standards. Nine times out of ten, the levels simply did not cut the mustard. I re -did the entire 100- level slate over the course of two years, but succumbed to doubts, fatigue, and not too  pleased with the fact that, in  early 2012, I was slated to both locate and decide where in which levels multiple floor and ceiling textures should be  placed. That took its toll. Though I should have known better, I never properly backed up the project, an d due to a  hardware crash in April 2012 the new levels I had made were apparently lost. To this day, I regret it immensely, but I  have gotten over it, as you can only progress as a level maker. Nevertheless, Havoc still has all the original coding files  and the EXE is in shipshape.    This release, from April 2012, contains the only levels backup I could locate, which contains the first 60 levels of Wolf  Overkill's first edition. These were the very first made. Along with Abandon v0.0, Schabbs 7000 and  Wolfram, I  consider this a mod you can play if you want to, but it is more meant as an archive type of thing, not a final product as  such. Nevertheless, the 60 levels are playable.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 1 (#521)  Compiled: August 8, 2009    This was the first level  made for this project, and it felt good. I had been more or less plummeting in terms of  inspiration for making levels since the Endlösung project came to an end. Nevertheless, over the summer I  experienced a hunger and a desire to return to making levels  in the same crazy way that produced Nazi Operation, All  This & Wolf 3D and  W.O.L.F.  It is very much a straight take on ideas from Gary Ragland, no guard-by-guard  introduction or the chain gun not being made available until a later level, it was all in your face from the get go. I  enjoyed playing this level.  Ever since I started making levels, I had always wanted to try out collapsible columns and  exploding oil drums, and now I finally had the chance. Obviously AReyeP was a huge  influence on the way I tackled  them, as I had enjoyed their interplay with other sprites and level designs in Spear Resurrection  and End of Destiny.  This level later appeared in a more official form, as the Overkill project was only mentioned in a Wolf Haven forum  thread with an upload from Havoc's site, as level 12 in  The Iron Dream, which eventually morphed into  Victory of Faith.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 2 (#522)  Compiled: August 9, 2009    One of the first rooms in the level is more experimental and more in the vein of Ariel or AReyeP, b ut the rest of the  level signals what is to come, which is very repetitive designs and uninteresting guard placement. I was still battling  that in those days. There's a nice layout in the book shelf room on the way to the silver key, though, but other than   that it was just a big, Spear stone wall kind of level with other brownish textures on top. It was fun to make, either  way.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 3 (#523)  ----------------------- Page 131-----------------------  
Compiled: August 24, 2009    The gradual introduction of the new enemies was very much taken from Wolf  Skevos-Jones. When I first played  Castle  Totenkopf I was amazed that some of the brutal SS guards did not appear until level 12 or something. I wanted that  here. The gray guard from The Final Solution  reappears after many years of not being used by me (though it was used  briefly in an embryonic NovoWolf evidenced by the Read This!) as well as the dirty brick from the same mod. It was  fun to have such a wide slate of things to do. Breakable objects, animated objects, numerous new walls and a handful  of new guards. It was just so much fun having all this, and in SDL! Havoc introduced me to this with the making of this  mod, and I instantly agreed with myself that this was the best thing to happen to Wolf in a very long time. It was also  via Havoc's knowledge a bout SDL that he resurrected NovoWolf from dying in  unreleased obscurity.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 4 (#524)  Compiled: August 26, 2009    The gold/silver key room was obviously inspired by AReyeP, and I was very pleased with the result. This particular  design idea survived into the "good" version of Overkill, as one of the few things from this particular edition. Again,  there is a lot of exploding barrel action and also  collapsible columns that do not necessarily have a secret area behind  them. Sometimes it's just fun to break stuff while killing guards.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 5 (#525)  Compiled: August 29, 2009    This level introduces the missile launcher, which I had otherwise only used in  Project Wolfgeist. This time it was much  more fun. Along with standard pickup missiles, Havoc also supplied me with a missile box, and the later version also  featured the guards melting as in Doom, rather than just falling over as they would if you should them with a standard  gun. The level itself is a standard blue prison fare, complete with my then-obsession of having countless amounts of  ammo and health cluttered together heaps of bones and blood.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 6 (#526)  Compiled: August 30, 2009    I recall the lifeblood of this level also survived into the newer edition of this project. The shading effect really works  well, especially as the ceiling is gray, which fades better than the ceiling color of previous levels, e.g. level 3. I was no t  used to shading at this time, though it had been used in NovoWolf, but I still had a lot to learn. Similar mistakes were  not repeated in the newer edition, especially as I was then planning on adding textured floors and ceilings.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 7 (#527)  Compiled: September 1, 2009    The idea of this level is interesting, but it b ecomes tiring quickly. Again, at this time I used too many sprites, something  I realized when I re-made these levels six months later. I suppose All This & Wolf 3D  level 8 played its part in the  creation of this level.    ----------------------- Page 132----------------------- 
 WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 8 (#528)  Compiled: September 2, 2009    The newer edition's level 8 was similarly a black, dark dungeon type of thing. The secret level area seems like a  throwaway, but I liked the idea at the time, but I could have done much more to make it more interesting. Out of the  100 levels, 10 were secret, some of which were destined to have fun features, e.g. a motorbike race, exploding toilets,  dogs only, a drug effect that made ceiling colors and score numbers whirl around while an .OGG file played Elton  John's version of The Beatles' "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds".    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 9 (#529)  Compiled: September 4, 2009    What I wanted to pull over with Wolf Overkill in addition to the vast number of levels, many new guards and objects  and interesting features was also a more  loose approach to graphics. A teal brick wall, a yellow brick wall, a green brick  wall, a pink brick wall were all re-colorings of the familiar gray brick, some of them worked and some did not. I don't  know if this teal variation is one of them. A color that bright does  not suit the position of being the exclusive texture in  a level of this size.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 10 (#530)  Compiled: September 5, 2009    The gray concrete featured here was a more slick take on the familiar drab one from Spear. It's still  a texture I use very  rarely, if at all. The large room at the beginning signaled what was to come during 2010 and early 2011 when I re -did  the levels for this project, but otherwise it's rather standard. Also, and I would not do this today, I could not kee p  myself from using/teasing sprites and guards from the upcoming lab environment, e.g. scientists, health vials (a design  I wanted to resemble the vials from Unreal Tournament) and a nuclear atmosphere.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 11 (#531)  Compiled: September 5, 2009  Boss level    Compared to earlier boss level efforts and a handful of boss levels from original Wolf, this is acceptable. However, the  atmosphere is quite bland compared with what this mod could offer. Either way, the lifeblood of my original idea of  having Spear and Wolf come together in one mod chronologically is very much evident here with Trans Grosse being  the first boss.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 12 (#532)  Compiled: September 6, 2009    The idea of having an SA/SS showdown was something I had wanted si nce the Possum Trot era. An 8th grade history  assignment on the subject of the SA got me interested in the whole back story of Nazi Germany. Before World War II,  there were many events ripe for the picking of creating an interesting storyline for a Wolf mo d. Either way, I didn't  think it would be solid enough to base an entire mod around it, so I made this level instead. This is one of the better  ----------------------- Page 133-----------------------  
ones of the first edition of Wolf Overkill. Its remake, which was assigned level spot 63 in the new edition, app eared in  Time to Kill as level 38.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 13 (#533)  Compiled: September 9, 2009    I don't know the inspiration for this level, but I am not too fond of the lack of guards in the surroundings. I was not too  keen on marching guards at this time, and other than that this level does not have that much to offer, really. It serves  as an intro to the obligatory mutant-only part, levels 14 through 16, though levels 70 through 77 were planned to be a  full-on mutant-only part as well.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 14 (#534)  Compiled: September 11, 2009    This is the first mutant-only level, and obviously, yet again,  Totengraeber levels 13 through 18 were an inspiration.  Nevertheless, it merely comes across as one of many gigantic levels with the same features, design ideas and guard  placement repeated over and over.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 15 (#535)  Compiled: September 12, 2009    Picking up where the previous level left off, this features the gray concrete wall from Spear, which I hadn't used for a  while. This also features ordinary gray stone and steel panel, and cannot keep away the nascent laboratory  atmosphere. I was just a kid in a candy store by the time I made these levels. Everything just had to come at you at  once.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 16 (#536)  Compiled: September 17, 2009    In terms of design, this level is slightly more interesting than the previous two. We have some narrow hallways, some  interesting sneak peek areas, and an  intense atmosphere with the silent but still very dangerous and insanely fast SS  mutant guard, borrowed from Beyond Mutantstein Special Edition . This features nods to the mutant-only part being  over, with the next level being a departure from its surrounding levels.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 17 (#537)  Compiled: September 18, 2009    Having an oddball level in the middle of ordinary levels, a la Schabbs 2000  level 9, appealed to me. I was anxious to  make a lab level. Mind you, I hadn't really made one since NovoWolf  in late 2007. Here, I had a lot of sprites on hand,  though by the time it was made, these features were not implemented. I so had to wait until November to play it,  along with the other lab levels I pounded out during that time. Yes, "Control Deck 17" rears its head again, as I always  connected it with an intense laboratory atmosphere as in where it first appeared, Chemical Warfare  level 29. The  secret level access was an obvious afterthought. I still had a lot to learn in that respect. The robot boss, or Hans the  ----------------------- Page 134-----------------------  
Axe, from The Lost Episodes, appears as a sometimes -guard in my lab leve ls. I viewed it as that particular  atmosphere's Hitler ghost, if I can put it that way.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 18 (#538)  Compiled: September 19, 2009    While still remaining staunchly conservative in terms of ceiling color and primary texture having to fit e ach other, I had  the contrast of red ceiling colors. It would take me a while to appreciate contrasts rather than streamlining colors, but  there it is. This uses my re-colored gray brick, here in a medium green color, which is acceptable, but only in small  amounts. Being the dominant texture of a large level does not suit it at all, I think, looking at it now.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 19 (#539)  Compiled: September 25, 2009    This very drab level has an obvious  Totengraeber level 28 inspiration, evidenced by the usage of the re-colored Lost  Episodes blue stone wall, here in dark gray. All in all, it is not as vertical and one-sided as so many other levels made  for this project, but it's still not something I would put out today.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 20 (#540)  Compiled: October 2, 2009    Apparently, colors were key for this particular project. I mean, looking at it now, basing an entire level on various  purple textures has to hold water. This clearly does not. I don't know what it was. All I know is, that colors as a theme  would haunt me years later, and I still think just as much in color as in combat and design.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 21 (#541)  Compiled: October 2, 2009    The way this level opens makes me think that I designed it based on an idea, and forgot about t he starting point. I then  adjusted the previous level's elevator. I seem to remember that. Either way, the level itself is another blue stone  mastodont, not something made for discovery, just for paddling around in using the cheat codes and blowing up  objects and guards.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 22 (#542)  Compiled: October 3, 2009    The overtly bright sheen of this level, utilizing the re -colored gray brick here in buttery yellow makes me cringe now.  However, the key trick was either a lack of better ideas or just made on purpose. When making mods with 60 levels or  more, it's OK to have a handful of levels not being that large. Apparently I was not aware of this at the time, as pretty  much every level is titanic.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 23 (#543)  Compiled: October 3, 2009  ----------------------- Page 135-----------------------    Even if the time stamp didn't appear on the overview levels I could sense these levels were made in succession on a  Saturday. I did this often back then. Each level is a giant, making inspiration and ideas pretty vague and similar. On top  of that, you get unorthodox color selections, hoping to make it more interesting.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 24 (#544)  Compiled: October 3, 2009    The opening rooms were obviously inspired by Schabbs 2000  level 45. Other than that, the dirty brick from The Final  Solution  resurfaces, putting a lid on the whole grandiose idea, as it is a very drab texture to use extensively. The thing  is, the levels for this project aren't bad as such – they are just very repetitious and too decorated.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 25 (#545)  Compiled: October 4, 2009    This again reprises the mutant-only idea, but comes across as quite dark and odd in that there are several of the same  key pickups. I was not interested in play testing my own levels as such back then, and I distinctly recall Dean, d uring  the testing of one of my earlier mods, forgot which, mentioned several keys lacking, though the rooms were decorated  and everything else was in place. I just forgot the keys, some of the locked doors and so on. I don't know what made it  slip. In the case of this level, keys were used merely for decorating, and also in order to tease the player, as the gold  key unlocks an area accessing a secret level.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 26 (#546)  Compiled: October 9, 2009  Boss level    This was also made before I cou ld properly play it. I had this idea of an intense boss level featuring Doctor Schabbs,  and so I set off and made it. The area around the boss itself I'm pretty proud of, and I also retained this in the 2010/11  version. Having a boss open an area, as the l aboratory levels encompass levels 26 through 36, was a radical idea of  mine. The storyline, which was either written later or not backed up, had Schabbs and Otto work together on a  project, dubbed the "new Eisenfaust", with me making a handful of original graphics to fit. I enjoyed this part of it  immensely.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 27 (#547)  Compiled: November 3, 2009    Pretty much any lab level I make is inspired by three people only: Wolf Skevos-Jones, BJ Rowan and Jack Ryerson. This  is evident here, as certain areas are clean and neat, and some feature the same silly amount of blood, gibs and other  nuclear sprites.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 28 (#548)  Compiled: November 3, 2009    ----------------------- Page 136-----------------------  
The fourth key area was obviously taken from my previous experiences of making lab le vels for All This & Wolf 3D . I  felt blessed to be able to work in such a detailed and stable environment. Not once do I remember the EXE crashing or  anything coded in that didn't work.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 29 (#549)  Compiled: November 3, 2009    One of the many new sprites was the Tesla coil, which of course caused you to lose health, so I would toy around with  that. The red lab wall texture always symbolized a more intense atmosphere, a code red kind of thing. So I always  envisioned a lot of guards, a lot of suspense, a lot of explosions while you see too much red.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 30 (#550)  Compiled: November 4, 2009    This follows the stuffy atmosphere of previous levels, but also suggests the scientist are just as much lab material as  they are office  material. I always tried to bring some kind of reality into the laboratories rather than it exclusively  being all white, lime green or fire red.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 31 (#551)  Compiled: November 6, 2009    I was experimenting in making the lab levels stand out with more heavy guarding, explosions and of course a lot of  redundant ammo and health pickups to follow. The health vials can make your health go all the way up to 666 %,  which was an odd idea I threw in the mix which Havoc put together in a minute.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 32 (#552)  Compiled: November 6, 2009    The large room with the dimensional window sprite was something I enjoyed immensely. But as with  Project  Wolfgeist, though I had by now well understood how to use MapEdit and produce playable levels , it got too much in  the end. It all got too repetitive, lifeless and it got difficult to tell these lab levels apart.     WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 33 (#553)  Compiled: November 7, 2009    Though this features regular guards in a more relaxed edition of a laboratory , it still follows the bad habit of making  everything too simple and too similar in design.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 34 (#554)  Compiled: November 9, 2009    Everything about this level is just too much. First of all, I am still not keen on using landscape in a  lab area, however,  this being a cargo of sorts it's sort of okay. The decoration is way too much, too cluttered and not imaginative at all.  ----------------------- Page 137-----------------------  
The secret level is hidden away quite well, and the idea of it could work in a better and more spacier environment.  The  SS guards hiding behind truck rears, which are horrible sprites to be used in that manner, is also something I would not  do again. Should I want an extensive cargo level, I would add the truck wall texture, originally put forward by Wolf  Skevos-Jones.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 35 (#555)  Compiled: November 9, 2009    Other than the ending elevator being fun just for watching stuff blow up, this red lab panel level is a tedious, long - draught and uninspired piece of work.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 36 (#556)  Compiled: November 9, 2009  Boss level    The worst part about this project is that its best levels are forever lost. This original Otto level was made way better,  but this original level works OK too. The opening room was retained in the newer version, as far as I r emember.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 37 (#557)  Compiled: October 10, 2009    This is an almost-exclusive SA level, which is most remarkable for the fact that it was the first of 5 levels done on this  particular day. I remember being satisfied with it the morning I  played it, but looking at it now I can't really find  anything particularly interesting about it.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 38 (#558)  Compiled: October 10, 2009    Around noon, this level was finished. It features the bright, buttery yellow brick wall, the re -colored gray brick, and  features something I often wanted not to do, which was making bright, shiny levels almost exclusively. I want Wolf to  be bloody, gory, difficult and dark!    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 39 (#559)  Compiled: October 10, 2009    As we reach afternoon and early evening, this level gets finished. If the guard placement was adjusted, pickups  reduced, and several other walls fitting the overall red theme were added, this could have been a fine level. This was  probably why it was selected to appear in The Iron Dream as level 10, in lack of better things to do.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 40 (#560)  Compiled: October 10, 2009    As the evening came to a close, I had made this level, which is probably the better one out of the five levels made this  ----------------------- Page 138-----------------------  
day. It has better texture variation, areas with more space and is not nearly as over-decorated as many of the levels  made for this project. This appeared in The Iron Dream as level 13.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 41 (#561)  Compiled: October 10, 2009    Reaching the nighttime, getting tired, ideas having long fizzled out, I still had creative ideas, or so I thought. I  specifically remember padding the purple stone section out and just hating it. Whatever the case, it got made, and  that's that.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 42 (#562)  Compiled: October 11, 2009    I seem to recall making the skeletal structure of some of this level the previous day, after having made five huge levels.  Obviously I could not finish it in that same stretch, so this was finished the day after. It's a typical surrou ndings-level of  mine from this time, featuring no guarding as to not make the locked doors vulnerable, and the usual, shiny, Episode  6-ish approach to making castle levels utilizing brown marble. This also appeared in  The Iron Dream as level 14.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 43 (#563)  Compiled: October 11, 2009    This again utilizes the teal brick, and for some reason I can dig it. A lot of different SS guards fit the blue sheen, but it   gets boring quickly when you find out the design is very similar to that of prev ious levels.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 44 (#564)  Compiled: October 12, 2009    The design of teasing the secret elevator and a regular pickup area adjacent to each other was solid enough for me to  keep it in the 2010/11 edition's level 44. This also features slightly larger rooms and less pass-through sprites, which is  good to see.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 45 (#565)  Compiled: October 12, 2009    This level epitomizes everything I hate about this early edition of Wolf Overkill: Too bright, too generous, too  repetitive – there is just nothing about this I appreciate now whatsoever.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 46 (#566)  Compiled: October 12, 2009    Level 42 having had a similar design, a surroundings-level, it came far too soon. Additionally, this is probably around  the time I started using much larger rooms rather than small, conjoined rooms, but still made with the same banality,  bereft of challenge, "autopilot" designs, if you will. That said, this is the tenth titanic level made over three days, so  ----------------------- Page 139-----------------------  
maybe that has its say as well.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 47 (#567)  Compiled: October 15, 2009    Other than your average exploding barrel fun, this level is again a big mush of one primary color and a lot of padding,  both in terms of guards and objects.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 48 (#568)  Compiled: October 26, 2009    The column room with the SS guards and the easy SS sign secret doors were pretty much a straight take from  Totengraeber  level 19, only half as interesting. There are some designs coming up here that I would expand upon and  frequently use in the 2010/11 edition, but looking at it now it comes across as too light.     WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 49 (#569)  Compiled: October 26, 2009    The player starts with 75 % health, a pistol and 8 bullets, and this is because I had originally planned an even t in the  vein of Spear Resurrection going from level 12 to 13, only to be relegated to a prison, and all the weapons and things  you have collected up to that point are no longer in your possession. I always hated that. So this is my revenge, so to  speak. But of course, by the time I made the level, I just plowed on and forgot about this whole thing, resulting in a  silly, large green brick inferno. Still, being ever generous with health and ammo, the player will quickly be back on his  feet.    WOLF OVERKILL, L EVEL 50 (#570)  Compiled: October 27, 2009    The prison guard, or the regular guard from  The Final Solution does not fit in at all in this fancy castle environment.  However, his appearance sits well with the faceless decoration and non-existent challenge found in this level.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 51 (#571)  Compiled: October 27, 2009    This level features a small library area, which was always fun to make, but it is just me, again wanting to recreate  All  This & Wolf 3D level 6 which in turn was just a rip-off of Operation Todpfad  level 2, only without the understated  decoration and much more logical guard placement.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 52 (#572)  Compiled: October 28, 2009    Plowing ever on through repetitious designs and bland guard placement, you still nevertheless get some exploding  barrel action. I could always use those or collapsable columns, or both next to each other, resulting in an awesome  ----------------------- Page 140-----------------------  
blast that both makes the drum explode and crashes the column as a foil.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 53 (#573)  Compiled: October 28, 2009  Boss level    This is a fairly average boss level with an abysmal short section featuring the ridiculous Spear white panel with brown  lining.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 54 (#574)  Compiled: October 29, 2009    The gray stone area of this level is rather good. Very understated and not as cluttered, and very much in the same vein  as the 2010/11 edition. Other than that, it's not that interesting a level, but still better than so many others in this  early version.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 55 (#575)  Compiled: October 30, 2009    What irks me the most about this level, and this goes for many other levels in this particular version of Wolf Overkill, is  that I wanted to recreate All This & Wolf 3D . Like that mod's level 55, this is also a large gray slime thing, and overall I  just don't like the fact that I kept looking backwards at the time. I felt more and more unwilling to change my style. It  did not dawn upon me until the spring of 2010 when I pulled myself together and re -did the levels and eventually  opened up for more exciting designs and tougher gameplay, gradually through time.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 56 (#576)  Compiled: October 30, 2009    An entire level based on softwood partition no longer appeals to me. Again, this is planking the same level number  from All This & Wolf 3D. I don't remember if it was this level, or the one from the 2010/11 edition that shared the  same spot and primary texture, but our block experienced a brief power blackout, and had to re -make the level! I  normally back up every 5, not more than 10 minutes while making the level. This taught me to back up even more  often. Starting in 2012, I began using laptops instead of stationary computers, so this likely won't happen again.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 57 (#577)  Compiled: October 30, 2009    Tho ugh level 54 looked promising, this particular level seems to obliterate that approach. It's yet another cluttered  level, which also houses access to a secret level, uninspired and tedious in retrospect.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 58 (#578)  Compiled: October 30, 2009    ----------------------- Page 141-----------------------  
It's a strange tendency I had back then. Four colossal levels made in a day. None of them that interesting or unique,  just a big mush of uniform textures and various sprites placed in obligatory spaces, and a broad utilization of the many  new enemies along with the regular guards. I don't care much for this level. It has an office atmosphere, which makes  little sense with the dirty brick walls from The Final Solution.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 59 (#579)  Compiled: October 31, 2009    This is one of the few  levels made for this particular version that actually had a theme and an idea behind it. I wanted  a teaser all over the level to a secret area that lay outside the normal level. It is still very embryonic, and the idea  would not survive in a proper way in the 2010/11 edition, though its level 38 featured something similar. That  particular level was luckily slotted into Time to Kill as level 30.    WOLF OVERKILL, LEVEL 60 (#580)  Compiled: November 1, 2009    The idea that the brown weave would also feature muta nt blood decorations in addition to regular blood, had long  been something I wanted in a mod, and it bore fruit. I like the different edge it gives. Having all the different enemies'  dead guard sprites also made it a lot easier to use deserted atmospheres  and signs of internal struggle amongst the  Nazis.    This is the only Wolf Overkill levels left, unfortunately, as they are, as mentioned before, very poor and very naive.  However, I would re-make all levels during 2010 and 2011 before losing them. At the time I did not give it a second  thought, as I could not be bothered with it, but I regret it immensely now. Nevertheless, after some consternation and  disillusion with making levels, I got back to work and eventually cranked out levels for my map set and tak ing baby  steps in what would become  Victory of Faith.    Wolf Overkill will be properly finished one day, as all the coding survives. My level making skills are getting better and  better, and I would like to see this out one day as it was meant to be.    Odds and Ends  Released: April 28, 2012  Compiled: May 2007 – June 2011    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 1 (#581)  Level name: Get Down, Make Love  Compiled: May 2007    Odds and Ends was a project I had long envisioned, as I felt that by 2012 I had too many levels out there th at I had  trouble keeping track of them. So what I did was that I collected them, made only rudimentary changes in order for  them to fit in a seamless level flow with boss levels and one secret level, using a bastardized version of the  Time to Kill  EXE. I was pleased when it came out, as I now had a proper collection of my various contributions. I am absolutely lost  when it comes to community efforts. I'm just being honest here. Often times my behavior in community efforts have  ----------------------- Page 142-----------------------  
been embarrassing, and so I have done my best to stay away from them. Also, I always feel that levels I contribute  count as being community efforts and not "my" levels as such. With the exception of my September 2007's Map of the  Month Contest entry Facing Hell and my entry in Beyond Mutantstein SE Anniversary Edition all my "orphans" are  collected here. Facing Hell was not included due to the nature of the level which included numerous advanced code  changes, and the Bucksnort level is naturally not included as it was made after this set got released. In my mind those  still belong to the community, and not me.    This level was originally level 13 in  Escape from Castle Holle, released by Dean in late 2007. As he had helped out so  many times with various projects, most of which I could never properly finish, I felt I owed him a lot, and as he was a  fan of my work, I got two slots in his first proper mod. This particular level I'm not too fond of. My heart was definitely  not there. I was coming out of several months of no Wolf activity, and had trouble getting back on the beat. There are  things I would never usually do in this level, e.g. flag poles in front of banners and so forth, but the level is  nevertheless still playable.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 2 (#582)  Level name: In the Light  Compiled: May 2007    This was my second contribution to  Escape from Castle Holle, a Gary Ragland pastiche of sorts, but compared to the  first level, this is actually rather good. I remember being surprised that I had not used it in anything until I compiled  this mod.  I had completely forgotten about it.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 3 (#583)  Level name: Out of the Blue  Compiled: June 2007    Coming out of my Wolf break, along with making the two levels for  Escape from Castle Holle, I visited the DHW forums  and found out that a new initiative, the Map of the Month Contest had started up and was gaining popularity. I quickly  volunteered to do a level, even though my inspiration was more or less non -existent. Jack Ryerson played a significant  part in this contest, and with him being an old idol of mine in terms of making levels, I tried to remember my best  Chemical Warfare level 8 tricks, but it all fell through as the recent break had quelled my inspiration. I remember he  wasn't too pleased with it, which was a shame, but I couldn't help but agree. The level was an uninspired mush of blue  stone that didn't really go anywhere. I feel now that had the Map of the Month Contest been initiated when I  suggested a similar thing in January 2006, I would have come out on top.    ODDS AND ENDS,  LEVEL 4 (#584)  Level name: Redux  Compiled: July 2007    As a response to last month's entry, I did indeed, as Jack described it, go crazy with various wall textures in this level.  The substance suffers. There is no effort  here;  it was all made merely to prove a point. To add insult to injury, there's  even a holowall featured here, which I always considered a cheap trick supposed to add excitement and edge.    ----------------------- Page 143-----------------------  
ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 5 (#585)  Level name: Oblivion  Compiled: October 2007    This level originally appea red in the November 2007 Map of the Month contest. I was working on both NovoWolf and  an embryonic The Bitter End by the time I made this level. Perhaps it spawned The Bitter End, I don't remember. Either  way, it's much more inspired than my previous entri es in the contest. I had a blast making this level, using a teal ceiling  and taking Gary's ideas one step further using all the freedom that this particular EXE provided.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 6 (#586)  Level name: Thomas 2008  Compiled: April –  May 2008    This level was released in the Team Aardwolf Map Set in September 2008. I have no recollection of making it, and I  have no idea if it was made exclusively for the set or as part of a map set of my own. Judging by the date, it was made  in the wake of The Bitter End's release, perhaps as an attempt a map set, which eventually became  W.O.L.F.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 7 (#587)  Level name: Patch It Up  Compiled: December 12, 2009    This was one of several levels made for the Super Haven Mapset  released in February 2010. At this time, I was making  levels like crazy for the failed Wolf Overkill project, while simultaneously making levels for a more toned down  counterpart,  Wolf Overdrive. I had the energy to pull off levels at an explosive rate, so I churned out a handful of rather  good levels for this particular map set in a few days. This particular level is inspired by Episode 5, as in the map set it  was assigned E5L4.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 8 (#588)  Level name: Brown Sugar  Compiled: December 13, 2009    This level was made the day after the previous one, as my then-current projects featured a lot of coding, and so I got my  juices flowing in making vanilla levels. It was assigned the E5L6 spot in the  Super Haven Mapset though it probably owes  more to Episode 6.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 9 (#589)  Level name: The Start  Compiled: December 1, 2009    This was my first contribution to the Super Haven Mapset, and it appeared there as E6L1, which is obvious from the  design. I had fun making this level, it was made and tested all within an  hour and a half.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 10 (#590)  ----------------------- Page 144-----------------------  
Level name: Front Door  Compiled: December 2, 2009    This was made the day after the previous level, being assigned E6L3 in the map set. It featured a bit more tricks, and as  it contained a secret level I felt I had to pull out all the stops to make it good.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 11 (#591)  Level name: Harmony  Compiled: December 14, 2009    As this was assigned E6L7 which contains the teal ceiling color, making this level was easy. The familiar gray brick, steel  panel topped off with the Episode 6 staple, brown stone, fills out the level, which like the other entries probably did not  take more than an hour to make.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 12 (#592)  Level name: Brownstone Shuffle  Compiled: December 16, 2009    This was assigned E6L8 in the map set, and though it's no match for the original E6L8 (which is hard to beat, in my  opinion), it's still a pretty good level. At this time,  Wolf Overkill had nearly one hundred levels done. Most of these were  cluttered with various pass-through sprites and were way too generous in both ammo and health and suffered from  repetitive designs and a ridiculously overwrought, padded out atmosphere in general. It was after finishing this level for  the Super Haven Mapset that I decided to take a break and re-think my approach to making levels, eventually resulting  in a re-start of  Wolf Overkill which saw me discard 97 levels.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 13 (#593)  Compiled: August –  November 2010    This level featured as E4L3 in the DHW SDL Mapset, released January 2011. I had fun making this episode. I was in the  middle of making numerous large levels for the failed  Wolf Overkill project, so making these standard Wolf levels came  natural, easy and felt relaxing, much as the Super Haven Mapset did. This particular level used numerous textures that  fit well beneath a dark red ceiling, and I enjoyed making it.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 14 (#594)  Compiled: August –  November 2010    This level featured as E4L1 in the DHW SDL Mapset, and as an opening level it's both simple and difficult. BJ Rowan and  Brian Lowe were the main inspirations behind this particular level.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 15 (#595)  Compiled: August –  November 2010    This level featured as E4L2 in the DHW SDL Mapset. I had a good time making this. The original E4L2 was surely an  ----------------------- Page 145-----------------------  
inspiration, but other than that it features a handful of different atmospheres, but still comes across as a solid play.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 16 (#596)  Compiled: August –  November 2010    This level featured as E4L4 in the DHW SDL Mapset . It used the brown weave to excess, something I regret in hindsight,  but it turned out OK in the end.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 17 (#597)  Compiled: October 28, 2010    This level featured as E4L5 in the DHW SDL Mapset. For Odds and Ends I assigned it the sky blue ceiling color I first came  across in All This & Wolf 3D.  It was a joy for me to make this level and play through it, as I felt the ceiling and the open  brown weave area made it seem bigger than it actually is.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 18 (#598)  Compiled: October –  November 2010    This level featured as E4L6 in the DHW SDL Mapset. It's a large blue stone level, which bears little resemblance to the  original E4L6, one of the few original levels I'm still not that comfortable with.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 19 (#599)  Compiled: October –  November 2010    This level featured as E4L7 in the DHW SDL Mapset. It reprises the original E4L7 in that the gold key locked door  features in the opening room. It's quite large, and perhaps a bit repetitive, and as these we re made in late 2010 I was  yet to realize that I made it too easy for the player with the constant presence of health and ammo.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 20 (#600)  Compiled: October –  November 2010    This level featured as E4L8 in the DHW SDL Mapset. It's a pretty good gray slime level, but no match for the original  E4L8 which is a much more exciting and varied level.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 21 (#601)  Compiled: May 3, 2009  Boss level    This level was the first and only boss level of my failed Spear map set,  Hard Cell, something I dabbled in and self- released in May 2009. The level itself signals burnout in the wake of Endlösung and the fact that I was never good with  Spear and coming up with boss level ideas, but it still plays all right.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 22 (#602)  ----------------------- Page 146-----------------------  
Compiled: June 2011    This level featured as level 9 in the  DHW SDL Map Set [Spear Edition]. It was made between the failed Wolf Overkill  project and Time to Kill, at a time where I was putting together and original map set which I scrapped. The level  itself is  all right, but I recall little of making it. It did however suit the uniquely purple ceiling color found in Spear level 9.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 23 (#603)  Compiled: June 2011    This level featured as level 13 in the  DHW SDL Map Set [Spear Edition]. It was made between the failed Wolf Overkill  project and Time to Kill, at a time where I was putting together and original map set which I scrapped. This was made  originally for that map set, in which the Spear stone wall was standard gray stone. This is a pretty good level, and the  original was even better.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 24 (#604)  Compiled: June 2011    This level featured as level 17 in the  DHW SDL Map Set [Spear Edition]. It's a good Ramparts level, I enjoyed making it,  but I still doubted whether or not I knew how to handle Spear's limitations.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 25 (#605)  Compiled: July –  October 2011    This level featured as level 8 in Operation Mutant Strike 3. I made it as an ordinary Wolf level and I never tested it in the  environment in which it was released. This underlines my irrational behavior when it comes to contributions. Had it not  been for Ron who fixed it up for proper release, it probably would have fallen by the wayside. The level itself is OK,  nothing major though.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 26 (#606)  Compiled: April 2012    This level was originally an opening level for E6L1 in a map set which probably became  Thomas' Wolfenstein 3-D.  However, being ever insecure, I decided to make a ludicrous move, releasing the level for itself and dubbing it Kilroy  Was Here after the WWII phenomenon as well as a song by psychedelic band The Move. Luckily, it was withdrawn  immediately, as Odds and Ends came out days after. It plays pretty good though, obviously the influence was a mixture  of Spearfishwolfbones and what became Thomas' Wolfenstein 3-D.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 27 (#607)  Compiled: May 2, 2009    This level was originally the opening level for my failed Spear map set,  Hard Cell. I liked making the level and playing it,  and for a brief moment it seemed that I could have taken this map set further. The size of it is quite respectable, and  for 2009 it appears rather clean for a gray slime level.  ----------------------- Page 147-----------------------    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 28 (#608)  Compiled: May 2, 2009    This level followed the previous, being level 2  in Hard Cell. I was on a roll, this being the second out of three levels I  made this day. Brown weave, gray slime and red brick all work out rather well with the dark yellow Episode 2 ceiling  color.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 29 (#609)  Compiled: May 2, 2009    This level followed the previous, being level 3 in Hard Cell. It was after making this that my engines started to jam,  though this level is all right. It features the gray concrete "cobblestone" wall, together with the more familiar gray  brick.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 30 (#610)  Compiled: May 3, 2009    The last of the four standard levels made for  Hard Cell, I made this in less than an hour and immediately felt drained. I  probably slipped into that state while making this level, as the room facing the player features a rather large portion of  ammo and health, which leads me to believe I mistake this for the boss level until looking at the bottom of MapEdit  and seeing the level number was 4 rather than 5.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 31 (#611)  Compiled: October –  November 2010    This level featured as the boss level in the  DHW SDL Mapset. Though Otto's room is rather empty, the rest of the level  looks pretty good, and compared to it being a boss level and me making heaps of levels at this time, it's very acceptable.  I enjoyed making levels for this set. Being assigned an episode was much easier for me to handle than various levels  spread over a mod.    ODDS AND ENDS, LEVEL 42 (#612)  Compiled: August –  November 2010    This level featured as the bonus level in the  DHW SDL Mapset. I always thought the original E4L10 was rather weak and  annoying, and wanted to make something better now that I had the chance. Though it's rather difficult and demands  numerous secret doors released in order to complete it, I still think it fits the secret level spot, and I am glad I made it.    Thomas' Wolfenstein 3-D  Released: August 19, 2012  Compiled: January – August 2012    ----------------------- Page 148-----------------------  
THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 1,  LEVEL  1  (#613)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    For the first time  I released something  I had  long wanted to put out – a map set without any changes at all. The only files  released were  map files, and  I had  lots of fun  making  it. As Time to Kill came to an end, I managed to  put together a  shareware set, eventually  borrowing one of the  levels from this in  Time to Kill (as  level 29). I was  really hooked on this, as  I had never had a shareware set out either. It was fun to  play around with  MapEdit with so few things in it for the first  time in a long while . I released the finished Episode  1 as Escapism on  February 21, 2012, before  Time to Kill came out,  which was a silly decision, but as  I wanted the eventually finished set to coincide with original Wolf's 20th anniversary I  did not mind it initially, as I thought I would have all levels finished  by May 5.    The opening  level is  based on a  level I originally made during the spring and summer of 2011 for the original Wolf, which I  scrapped. It  included the same type of opening, dogs and columns in a  prison environment, and  I just went from there.  For the first time  I also  promised  I would stick to a certain guideline that appealed to all  levels: I would  not use textures or  sprites where they weren't used in the original  levels – e.g.  no gray stone #3 until Episode 3,  no officers  likewise, no  Hitler  ghosts or brown stone/brown  marble  until Episodes 5 and 6 and so on. It taught me a lot about discipline and succeeding  if you stuck to something from the get go –  I am very proud of this map set and firmly believe it contains the best levels I  have ever made.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 2  (#614)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    This  level originally featured occasional slimy stone walls and  hanging vines and the  like,  but I cleaned it up in order to  keep with the traditional Episode  1. It utilizes the textures used in the original E1L2, but they are introduced in a different  order.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 3  (#615)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    Just like the original E1L3, we  have large corridors and an overall  broad and inclusive  use of the entire 64x64 slate. Using  steel panel as the kitchen area's texture was something that felt natural, and "legal" as well as the steel panel appears  briefly in a long, narrow secret area.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 4  (#616)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    Though the design of this level is a bit off the wall compared to the original Episode 1,  it still maintains an episode 1 vibe  in terms of textures and usage of objects. Though the opening is a straight take from Schabbs 2000 level 34, it does  keep with the tradition of introducing crowns in standard levels in this particular level slot.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 5  Compiled: January –  February 2012  ----------------------- Page 149-----------------------    This had already been released in  Time to Kill as level 29, but was originally made for this map set.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 6  (#617)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    Though the original E1L6 featured prominent red bricks, I could not get them to make sense with this particular design. It  is a pretty good level, with some good, understated bunker designs that luckily lack the excess of previous efforts such as  W.O.L.F. and All This & Wolf 3D . The wood panel in this level was originally steel panel.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 7  (#618)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    I made this immediately after finishing the previous level. This is fairly large and slightly bombastic, but as the original  EXE only holds 399 objects, it gave me a much-needed collar in  regards to decoration, and caused  me to  rethink my  approach to what a  level should  look like and to differentiate necessity and excess. The ending corridor featuring the  elevator originally  had  landscape texture  behind the armor (originally columns), but as that was  not featured in such  fashion in the original Episode  1,  I discarded it. It was after releasing this episode in February as Escapism  I read a review,  which praised the design but disliked the seemingly endless amounts of ammo and food pickups, eliminating the  challenge of survival. Though not running out of ammo or health for long stretches of time makes the playing experience  easier, a challenge is just as much part of the Wolf experience as having fun, and looking at the two rooms littered with  food pickups near the tables  makes me understand the much needed criticism. I would take this fact into account for my  future level making.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 8  (#619)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    Though this features textures alien to the original E1L8, t he textures had still been introduced in previous levels. That was  the main rule for me. I could get away with using the steel panel as E1L3 had originally introduced it. The overall design of  this level pleases me, and even though there is landscape visib le in a secret area, I can still live with it.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 1,  LEVEL 9  (#620)  Compiled: January –  February 2012  Boss level    This bears  little resemblance to the original E1L9, but I felt that it had been over-used both by me and in general, so I  took an entirely different approach. It's a pretty good boss level, I think.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 1,  LEVEL  10  (#621)  Compiled: January –  February 2012  Secret level    ----------------------- Page 150-----------------------  
This level is more open and spacious than the original E1L10, but mai ntains the same vibe in using the purple stone  texture.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 2,  LEVEL  1  (#622)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    While Episode 1 was released as Escapism, I released Episode 2 as Eisenfaust Overdrive as well, which I regret even more. I  was just so proud of all the levels I had made and wanted them out there quick and fast. This opening level is a direct send- up of E2L1, using the same textures and feel. However, looking at it now, there is a mutant facing the wrong way, and for  some reason, a Hitler pops up on the way to the secret elevator, which is deplorable. I must have forgotten to remove it. I  was shocked when I found this out. It is my only true regret with this set.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 2  (#623)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    Playing the original E2L2 for the first time, it felt like a huge level to me. I wanted to recreate that feel here, and so we are  presented with an ordeal of a level, which was a blast to make and likewise play. This episode contains some of the best  levels I have ever made, I think.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 3  (#624)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    While this is quite different from the original E2L3 which  had a  neatly designed beginning and the  lovely large, spacious  secrets with gold that went on and eventually terminated in a small room with an extra life and a dozen of SS guards, it  still ends up an enjoyable play. I never felt that the dead guards were used enough in the original Episode 2, so I threw  some of them in here as well.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 4  (#625)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    This utilizes the old 4-way inferno idea originally found in  E6L7, while still staying quite original and taking a liberty of  using the gray ceiling to avoid the slimy stone, which is otherwise all over the episode. I enjoyed making this level and  was overtly satisfied with the outcome.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 5  (#626)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    Ever since  playing the original E2L5 I  have always  had affection for the bright  blue ceiling. It lights up the mood and it fits  the textures quite well. This level is a tad difficult, but I had fun making it and playing it for the first time.  I've also taken  the  liberty of using ja mmed doors in this entire  map set though  none were used in original Wolf,  but I felt it was an  innocent feature to  use – after all, they did appear in the Alpha version.    ----------------------- Page 151-----------------------  
THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 6  (#627)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    I never felt that purple stone went that well with the dark yellow ceiling in the original E2L6, so I made this an all-slime  level. The design is excellent, and it is fairly difficult without being way too difficult. This level is one of my all-time  favorites.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 7  (#628)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    This level used the idea of the original E2L7, with the rather short level, which via a secret area turns into a larger level .  Unlike the original E2L7 this is much more difficult, though, but as this is the seventh level of the episode I expected the  player to have a chain gun in his possession. Also, and this is a slight regret, the player is treated to a preview of the  remaining level via the columns in the opening room.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 8  (#629)  Compiled: January –  February 2012    Compared to the original E2L8, this is much too clean and bright for Episode 2. The overall structure and general feel of  this level is still pretty good, though. The opening room originally constituted of brown marble, with the remainder of the  level being brown stone, all indicative of Episode 6, so naturally these were removed shortly after the level was finished.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 2,  LEVEL 9  (#630)  Compiled: January –  February 2012  Boss level    As with the previous  boss  level, I felt the original counterpart was way too  poor and offered  little excitement. I wanted to  put that in  here. Here, there is an actual struggle in getting to the  boss.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 2,  LEVEL  10  (#631)  Compiled: January –  February 2012  Secret level    The original E2L10 is not one of the better original levels, I think. This, however, I have mixed feelings about, especially  the usage of steel panel. That said, it is after all a secret level and not a necessary play.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 3,  LEVEL  1  (#632)  Compiled:  February –  May 2012    While making Episode 3, I just exploded. Over the course of one day, I made the first 5 levels. The original episode  consisted of short, sharp, shock types of levels, and I tried my best to recreate just that with these ten levels.  ----------------------- Page 152-----------------------    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 2  (#633)  Compiled:  February –  May 2012    As with the original E3L2, this level also contained a ch ain gun in a secret area in the opening room.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 3  (#634)  Compiled:  February –  May 2012    This uses ideas from the original E3L3, but includes an actual blue stone prison area, albeit a rather tiny one.     THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 4  (#635)  Compiled:  February –  May 2012    Though this uses a tiny amount of slime, it is still an obvious Episode 3 level. I enjoyed making it.     THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 5  (#636)  Compiled:  February –  May 2012    Along with the previous four levels, this level was made the same day. I don't recall the date though. This level reprises  the E3L5 opening room successfully, and makes for an overall good level.     THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 6  (#637)  Compiled:  February –  May 2012    Just like the original E3L6, this  has a secret area with  lots of gold which the  player  is able to view from the get go. There is  a slight challenge in the gold key area with the guards behind barrels whose ammo you cannot  pick up.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 7 (#638)  Compiled:  February –  May 2012    Aside from the unorthodox secret area behind the starting point, this was very much a straight take on the original  E3L7, complete with an unbearable maze in order to access the secret level.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 8  (#639)  Compiled:  February –  May 2012    This reprises the original E3L8, complete with huge opening room and an oil drum maze (albeit tiny) but no secret door  in the opening room.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 3,  LEVEL 9  (#640)  ----------------------- Page 153-----------------------  
Compiled:  February –  May 2012  Boss level    Though this is larger and more difficult than the original E3L9, it still features the steel panel/gray stone 3 area where Hitler  hides out.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 3,  LEVEL  10 (#641)  Compiled:  February –  May 2012  Secret level    As with previous experiences, the PacMan level again disappoints. I never liked the original E3L10 aside from playing it  for the first time, so re-making it was dreadful. Though Episodes 1 and 2 had been released respectively as Escapism  and Eisenfaust Overdrive on February 21, they were again re-released together with this on May 5, on Wolf's 20th  anniversary. It was a poor move, really, though most of Episode 4 was more or less finished, as far as I recal l. It would  take me a few more months before I had the whole thing ready, though.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 4,  LEVEL  1  (#642)  Compiled: March – April 2012    The opening level of this episode  utilizes the exact same walls as those in its original counterpart. The  brown weave is  more in the forefront here, and it features one of my many two-way key pickup ideas.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 2  (#643)  Compiled: March – April 2012    Playing the original E4L2 for the first time felt like stepping into a new world. It just seemed ridiculously huge. I am not  sure that was what I was going for when I made this, as this contains smaller, more concise areas, but it still comes across  as pretty respectable.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 3  (#644)  Compiled: March – April 2012    The gold key area was inspired by AReyeP, while the remainder was just more or less something I threw together. It  does not bring back memories of the original E4L3.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 4  (#645)  Compiled: March – April 2012    The  large wooden corridors  had some origin in the original E4L4 though they were  nowhere  near as bombastic and  large  as these. This is more or less a BJ Rowan pastiche anno Conflict in the Fatherland. I was still chicken when it came to  marching guards, always afraid they would spoil the actual key hunt.    ----------------------- Page 154-----------------------  
THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 5  (#646)  Compiled: March – April 2012    My own impressions of the original E4L5 shine through here, as I felt it was a huge, dusty cave which seemed to go on  forever. I had fun making levels for this particular map set as I had played the original Wolf in earnest, all 60 levels from  start to finish, for the first time since I was 12 or something like that. It was a great experience, being able to play it in SDL  as well as finally finishing all levels with full ratios due to the secret door moving 2/3 squares thing. I played the original  game in full before making these levels, in December 2011. Time to Kill was still in the making when this happened, so the  original game's influence may have rubbed off on that as well. Though this was made a few months after that, the  influence still hung heavy in the air. I was beginning to feel genuinely thrilled again about making levels, for the first time  since All This & Wolf 3D, and this was all due to me going back to the very lifeblood of Wolf, the original levels themselves.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 6  (#647)  Compiled: March – April 2012    Though this has little to do with the original  E4L6, it's still a good level. The steel panel area design was something I was  trying out at the time, also evidenced by the Kilroy Was Here level found in Odds and Ends.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 7  (#648)  Compiled: March – April 2012    As  I always thought the opening of the original E4L7 was way too easy,  I wanted the player to actually need to  pick up the  gold key himself in this  level. It is a fairly standard  level, but through 2012  I began using 5-square wide  hallways  more  often, featuring two adjacent ceiling  lights  rather than j ust one. It looked more vivid that way, I felt.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 8  (#649)  Compiled: March – April 2012    The silver key area obviously  borrows from the original E4L8 in design, but everything  here was otherwise fresh. I always  liked the original E4L8 because of it varied environments of brown weave, blue stone and slime. And of course, the  red  brick area where there is a stove  placed against a steel  panel, causing the young  me to  run around the level for hours  looking for a steel  panel area!    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 4,  LEVEL 9  (#650)  Compiled: March – April 2012  Boss level    As a boss  level it  may seem a bit bland, but as a take on  E4L9 that we all  love, it's  right  in the  pocket. However, I was  merciless in my approach to picking up the appropriate keys, as no secret area is featured containing these.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 4,  LEVEL  10  (#651)  Compiled: March – April 2012  ----------------------- Page 155-----------------------  
Secret level    I always felt the original E4L10 needed a kick up the  butt, and though this seems a bit rushed, it still has an actual level in  it as opposed to its original counterpart.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 5,  LEVEL  1  (#652)  Compiled: May – August 2012    I do not remember exactly when I started making  levels for Episode 5, but I recall I took a break several weeks long. I  came back with a clear head, and though I had trouble getting started again, this level still comes very much through as  a proper bid on E5L1.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 2  (#653)  Compiled: May – August 2012    The original E5L2 hung heavily in the air when I made this. However, here it is possible to get behind the oil drums and  pick up some of the ammo the SS guards drop. I remember it drained my ammo in the original E5L2, so there's a bit of  childhood revenge in these levels as well.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 3  (#654)  Compiled: May – August 2012    As the original E5L3 was  relatively short, I figured this was a good excuse  not to waste too  much time and energy on this  either. I still think it  plays  pretty well.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 4  (#655)  Compiled: May – August 2012    The original E5L4 was never a favorite of mine. Nevertheless, it influenced this level immensely.     THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 5  (#656)  Compiled: May – August 2012    With a tricky secret door in order to access the secret level and a 5-square wide  hallway with ceiling  lights  next to each  other this  level is a first for me in  many ways. It's also one of the  best of the episode, I think.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 6  (#657)  Compiled: May – August 2012    This is a pretty good impression of the original E5L6, a level I remember playing with particular fondness. The light brown  ceiling made it seem loftier and fun than the previous level.  ----------------------- Page 156-----------------------    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 7  (#658)  Compiled: May – August 2012    Like the original E5L7 this also  has a hectic straight-on opening. We also get the first  usage of the  brown  marble texture,  also first seen in the original E5L7.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 8  (#659)  Compiled: May – August 2012    I had not made a level with so  many rooms in such compact fashion for a long time  up until this  point. The original E5L8  always seemed to slip away from me in terms of memory, but its blue wall area definitely stays with you, as it did in e.g.  Totengraeber level 71.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 5,  LEVEL 9  (#660)  Compiled: May – August 2012  Boss level    Obviously this  borrows  heavily from the original Gretel level, but it still  holds something of its own.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 5,  LEVEL  10  (#661)  Compiled: May – August 2012  Secret level    This is a pretty poor impression of a pretty poor original counterpart, but it still makes the cut.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 6,  LEVEL  1  (#662)  Compiled: May – August 2012    Before  making this, I think I wanted to  make something that took the  long corridor with officers and  made it even worse,  but it got too old in the end. It's OK, though the opening room could have been a lot better. It's way too large.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 2  (#663)  Compiled: May – August 2012    I always thought of the original E6L2 as drab and dreary compared to its placement in exciting, colorful Episode 6, so I did  my best to send it up a little with this level. I think I came out on top.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 3  (#664)  Compiled: May – August 2012    ----------------------- Page 157-----------------------  
As "The Twelfth Hour" is the tune for this  level spot I wanted to  make something  misty and  murky featuring the gray  slime exclusively, but as it was not used to a such effect in the original Episode 6 standard levels, I let go of that idea. The  result was a pretty good  level, nevertheless. I wanted to  make access to the secret elevator as difficult as  possible,  explaining the insane amount of SS guards in the silver  key room.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 4  (#665)  Compiled: May – August 2012    This was  partly inspired  by Schabbs 2000  level 15,  but otherwise it was  me freewheeling on ideas from the original  Episode 6. I would often think up levels while playing original Wolf back in the day, and I always imagined long, adjacent  corridors separated by columns to the "Zero Hour" tune.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 5  (#666)  Compiled: May – August 2012    While  having  little to do with the original E6L5,  reprising Schabbs 2000  level 6 with the opening secret door and the  ruthless amounts of guards behind jammed doors, it still makes for a fun  play and a rather clean, suave  brown weave  area.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 6  (#667)  Compiled: May – August 2012    The chaotic  nature of this is obviously inspired  by E6L6, though it's way more  hectic and less claustrophobic. I remember I  wanted to use this as  my entry in the John  Bucksnort tribute set, as his influence is obvious as well,  but when considering  how  much fun I had  playing his  levels and  how  much they inspired  me, it seemed a  half-ass effort to contribute a level  done for an entirely different thing, so  I made a completely new and original  level for that.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 7 (#668)  Compiled: May – August 2012    Though the original E6L7 reign amongst my favorites and  I've used its 4-way inferno area in so  many ways over years, I  felt it appropriate not to use it  here, and  make something completely different. I think that was a good move, as there's  absolutely nothing wrong with this level.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 8 (#669)  Compiled: May – August 2012    The silver key room utilizes a hallway design  I  hadn't used  before – it looks quite clever. The  rest of the  level is quite large,  but I don't really  have that  much to say about it.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 6,  LEVEL 9 (#670)  Compiled: May – August 2012  ----------------------- Page 158-----------------------  
Boss level    This  level's design is  pretty unorthodox compared to it being a boss  level, but  I think it works out for the  better.  Compared to the amount of guards and ammo  I think it adds up  pretty good, I think both the skilled  player and the weak  player will benefit from this.    THOMAS' WOLFENSTE IN 3-D EPISODE 6,  LEVEL  10 (#671)  Compiled: August 17, 2012  Secret level    Using  both  Hans and Gretel dropping the same  key  might seem a  bit silly and outdated, but I felt it fit the  moment  pretty  good. The opening area with the  mutants in the brown  marble  maze that the  player cannot access was  pretty mean, and  I  had never done anything  like it before. Symmetric trap  mazes were  never my bag until  I made this. As it's a bonus  level  it's  pretty unrewarding, but so was the original E6L10, in some respects. And so  my first original map set is concluded.  This was the  last level for the set, done on a Friday. After double-checking everything worked as expected, I sent it to  Brian  Lowe. I am immensely proud of this  map set, and  I still  hope to  make  both a Spear counterpart (as  Spearfi shwolfbones is a tad too experimental to  be considered an  "actual"  map set, in  my opinion) and  perhaps another  one for full Wolf again, perhaps less orthodox.    The Iron Dream  Released: November 8, 2012  Compiled: April 2010 – October 2011    THE IRON DREAM, LEVELS 1-10, 12-18    The first eight levels were original, and the rest were either from  Wolf Overkill or Spearfishwolfbones . I regret the  release, as it was pretty much just an anticipation of what would eventually become  Victory of Faith.    THE IRON DREAM, LEVEL 11 (#672)  Level name: Overkill  Compiled: April 2010 – October 2011    Though the 2010/11 edition of  Wolf Overkill is not an ancient thing, I have completely forgotten where this level came  from, which level spot it had. It appeared as the only level exclusive to The Iron Dream, which was rightfully withdrawn  and will not be re-released.    Beyond Mutantstein Special Edition: Anniversary Edition  Released: December 25, 2012  Compiled: September –  November 2012    BEYOND MUTANTSTEIN SPECIAL EDITION: ANNIVERSARY EDITION, LEVEL 15 (#673)  Level name: Zomby Woof  ----------------------- Page 159-----------------------  
Compiled: September –  November 2012    This community effort was meant as a tribute to the late, great John Bucksnort. I was eager to participate, as I had  always had an affinity for his level design. I did my best impression of something like Mutantstein 4 which is probably  one of my most played John Bucksnort mods. I got a lot of positive response to my level, which I deeply appreciated. It  was fun to make, and with all due respect I will strive not to include this level in one of my own projects. It belongs to  the Bucksnort set.    Victory of Faith  Released: January 24, 2015  Compiled: August 2012 – January 19, 2015    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 1  (#674)  Level name: Grand Opening  Compiled: December 23, 2013    Victory of Faith has a long, strange genesis. After getting back on track with  Thomas' Wolfenstein 3-D I was coaxed into  beta testing The Golden Episodes for its upcoming SDL port release, and its influence made me start the streamlined,  short, symmetric The Iron Dream released November 8, 2012. The issue was that 8 new levels were made and the rest  was padded out with leftovers from the failed  Wolf Overkill project and Spearfishwolfbones . I regretted releasing it within  a month or two. I then started a Lost Episodes map set, for which I made 4 levels before tiring of it. I then overhauled the  levels for the shareware version of the original Wolf, with an extra boss level made in the process, released as Guten Tag!  on December 16. I was incredibly embarrassed by this, as it seemed a return to my old tricks from the Possum days.    Many months passed without any major Wolf activity, though a failed set entitled Luger Me Now saw one level made in  June 2013; the idea being that the pistol wou ld be the only accessible weapon until later levels. The lifeblood of this  particular project eventually spilled over into a project which was basically a mixture of Gary Ragland type levels, gory  sprites and crazy color-based level ideas, self-released as Abandon III in December 2013. As with the two other projects  released in 2012, I likewise regretted releasing this.    Within weeks of releasing Abandon III  I wanted to start a fresh project. Andy worked out the EXE for me, and it was  smooth sailing from there. The opening level was made shortly before Christmas, and after making it I decided to replace  every graphic I could, giving the mod a more modern look while still retaining the original idea of Wolf, utilizing its bosses  and storyline, but with the nocturnal episodes and the first three episodes switched in the running order. This was lifted  from The Iron Dream, but played out to greater excess here. The design is more open and vivid, and as the graphics were  modernized, I also felt I had to modernize my level making approach, immediately outdating the ideas of Abandon III,  which were mainly the same Schabbs 2000/ Totengraeber shtick.    The level was inspired by Laz Rojas and Ariel. I also think  Countdown to Disaster’s opening level plays its part, with the  surrounding landscape and intertwined gray brick rooms.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 2  (#675)  Level name: Blue Condition  ----------------------- Page 160-----------------------  
Compiled: February 7, 2014    Though this was made six weeks after the previous level, it worked out for the better. I decided to take things naturally  with this project, and not rush anything, so I did not feel bad taking my sweet time. The level itself used a variety of blue  textures, including the blue panel with gray lining from  Totengraeber. It picked up where The Iron Dream left off, with an  obvious Ariel influence as well as a better sense of decoration and guard placement.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 3  (#676)  Level name: Rancid  Compiled: October –  December 2013    This was originally made for Abandon III, and original ly featured only guards, with the occasional SS guard behind block  objects in order for the player not to get access to a machine gun. It was one of my first levels in a very long time, and I  enjoyed making it and playing it. It's a good tunnel level.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 4  (#677)  Level name: The Aqueduct  Compiled: February –  March 2014    This level was a blast to make. The overall design and idea was completely new to me, and using the slime texture, now  dark green rather than dark yellow (as in Time to Kill) gave it a different hue, making the daytime landscape more  acceptable.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 5  (#678)  Level name: Hard Cell  Compiled: October –  December 2013    Originally made for Abandon III, this is a rather standard blue stone prison level, but I added more guards after  implementing it in this mod. A vital part of this project was my desire for more difficulty in a much more direct fashion.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 6  (#679)  Level name: Brick by Brick  Compiled: February – April 2014    Aside from the rather odd softwood area, this level is more or less a  Totengraeber/BJ Rowan pastiche featuring the red  brick exclusively.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 7  (#680)  Level name: Slimed Out  Compiled: October –  December 2013    This originally featured in Abandon III, one of its better levels, again underlining the fact that it was a disjointed project,  featuring both experiments in color and design, as well as more streamlined levels such as this.  ----------------------- Page 161-----------------------    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISOD E 1, LEVEL 8 (#681)  Level name: The Quarry  Compiled: February – April 2014    This level originally had less ammo and health, at which stage it was way too difficult and unfair to the player. I mean, I  like a good challenge, but the main point of Wolf, for me anyway, is to have fun. Again, it's still quite tough, but it's  balanced and fair and features mutants, nuclear barrels and the like, fueling the loosely based Episode 4 theme. I always  felt that Otto von Giftmacher and Doctor Schabbs spawned the same ideas.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 9  (#682)  Level name: Marble Manor  Compiled: February – April 2014    Slightly inspired by Totengraeber level 81, it's a bright and shiny level, even if it's a bit disjointed. I still enjoyed it, and  did not feel I took any risks as such with any levels of this mod.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 1, LEVEL 10 (#683)  Level name: The Ottobahn  Compiled: April 18, 2014  Boss level    This level concludes the first episode. In having no secret levels, I did not feel the pressure of  having to think up  different ideas for each, so I had more focus and time to make good and exciting boss levels. This level was inspired by  Ariel, and featured a light gray brick environment mixed with steel panel and a nuclear wasteland, topped off with t he  presence of Otto von Giftmacher.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 1  (#684)  Level name: Blue to Gray  Compiled: August 13, 2014    Though there were four months between finishing Episode 1 and starting Episode 2, I felt it turned out for the better.  This  balances blue and gray nuances quite well, features a huge, sparsely decorated opening room and more focus on  marching guards.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 2  (#685)  Level name: Caved In  Compiled: August – October 2014    This level saw me experimenti ng with textures, environments and ceiling colors, e.g. using the Lost Episodes cornfield  texture to excess, along with the familiar brown weave as well as brown marble. Though my gut instinct told me this  suited originally-themed mods with no graphical changes better, I felt that I could now accept things as they were,  which resulted in a majority of the levels of Episodes 2 and 3 being more experimental in terms of color. Looking back, it  ----------------------- Page 162-----------------------  
was a brave move, as I could have done the old thing and caved in to streamlining and using only few different textures  underneath certain ceiling colors.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 3  (#686)  Level name: Raw Teal  Compiled: September – October 2014    The opening room is an obvious nod to Brian Lowe with guards march ing side by side. The general flow and feel of the  level owes a lot to Ariel though. Though this used the familiar teal ceiling, its wall textures were varied and went with it  quite well in spite of being the modernized version of the familiar textures. I think this is one of the best levels of the  mod, even if the barrel maze is a bit on the cheap side.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 4  (#687)  Level name: Abysmal  Compiled: September – October 2014    This level saw me experimenting further with designs. The gold key area was new to me, though the general idea of it  has been seen in numerous mods. Again, textures are more varied without being too off the wall. Though this episode is  loosely based on Episode 5, it does not obviously come across as being such. I suppose I was tiring of making large, shiny  executive castle kind of levels.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 5  (#688)  Level name: Pan d'Monium  Compiled: September – October 2014    This had a more toned down approach to ceiling color, in that the br own marble matches it and the slime on the gray  brick likewise. Though the two textures conjure up a vastly different atmosphere, the level comes across as a complete  piece of work. My levels were getting much more difficult, which I think was a mature move. It had been shiny castles  and heaps of chicken on plates for far too long.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 6  (#689)  Level name: Mazz Confusion  Compiled: September –  December 2013    This was built using the  Odds and Ends  EXE, eventually morphing into a now withdrawn release, Abandon III where it  appeared as the last proper level, littered with blood and bones to excess, featured an avalanche of guards and played  like a compact, trippier edition of Schabbs 2000, only without the warmth. I disemboweled this level thoroughly, which  took a while but it was worth it as I always liked its general structure, removed all the outdated littering of blood,  bones, water puddles and whatnot and turned it into a more suave, office-based level. The Golden Episodes was an  obvious influence, as it also featured interesting ceiling colors from time to time while still maintaining its cool,  modernized look.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 7  (#690)  ----------------------- Page 163-----------------------  
Level name: Avant Ghastly  Compiled: September 13, 2013    Together with this mod's E4L1, this was the first level I had made in a while. This was built using the Odds and Ends  EXE,  eventually morphing into a now withdrawn release, Abandon III .  As with the previous level, this originally appeared in it  as a ridiculously difficult level drowned out in blood and bones. Originally it featured the blood wall from Spear. Here, it  takes on a more familiar tunnel/dungeon guise. While it's still quite tough to beat, this originally featured less ammo  and more guards, but got to a point where it stopped being fun. The fact that you can walk along the landscape in the  second gold key area was just a bit of fun I threw in, as Abandon III  paid little attention to this. Though I wanted to  streamline this particular mod, I still thought it needed some fun and edge.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 8  (#691)  Level name: Panel Beaters  Compiled: September –  December 2013    This originally featured in Abandon III, and originally featured the brown concrete as its main texture. As with Abandon  III's other levels, it was filled with blood and bones. Here I turned it into a mellow softwood kind of level, still retaining its  original difficulty in that most rooms are separated by block objects rather than separate floor codes, causing numerous  guards to  be alerted from the get go.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 9  (#692)  Level name: Doldrums  Compiled: June 2013    This was originally made as the opening level to the failed Luger Me Now project, originally featuring only guards and  officers. It may come across as cheap, but I still felt it needed to be included somewhere, otherwise I would have deleted  it.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 2, LEVEL 10 (#693)  Level name: Evil in Pink  Compiled: September – October 2014  Boss level    While having little to do with Gretel's original boss level, it still plays quite well. The plant designs were lifted from  The  Golden Episodes, and the guards attacking you after you enter Gretel's room probably had root in ideas from AReyeP.  Gretel's pink outfit was designed by Wolf-Skevos Jones, who helped with re-coloring and re-designing all the bosses.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 3, LEVEL 1  (#694)  Level name: At Wolf's Gate  Compiled: August –  November 2012    This originally opened  The Iron Dream, signaling my new approach in larger, spacious levels with more focus on design  than decoration.  ----------------------- Page 164-----------------------    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 3, LEVEL 2  (#695)  Level name: Kastle Kaos  Compiled: October –  December 2013    This originally featured as level 2 in Abandon III, one of the earliest levels, made in the wake of me playing The False  Spear extensively.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 3, LEVEL 3  (#696)  Level name: Abandion  Compiled: August – October 2014    This particular level was inspired by the opening level of my very first mod, Abandon . It stands out in that its design is  more free-form and mixed in layout, much as its influence was.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 3, LEVEL 4  (#697)  Level name: Hard Wood  Compiled: August –  November 2012    This originally appeared as level 3 in  The Iron Dream, and is a light, spacious level with an obvious BJ Rowan influence.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 3, LEVEL 5  (#698)  Level name: Fade to Blue  Compiled: August –  November 2012    This originally appeared as level 2 in  The Iron Dream. It featured more marching guards than previously compared to  2012, and utilizes the blue stone in a slicker  manner than that of a prison.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 3, LEVEL 6  (#699)  Level name: Chili con Crete  Compiled: August –  November 2012    This originally appeared as level 4 in  The Iron Dream. Its name owes to the fact that it uses the gray panel from  Totengraeber, which to me looks like concrete. It also features a checkerboard area, but generally uses my then-new idea  of larger spaces, less ammo and health and blood, bones and water puddles, which was inspired by me being assigned to  beta test The Golden Episodes for its SDL port.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 3, LEVEL 7  (#700)  Level name: Slimy Junction  Compiled: August –  November 2012    This slimy tunnel level appeared originally as level 5 in  The Iron Dream. I had a blast making it. It was inspired by Conflict  in the Fatherland E1L1, Totengraeber level 21 and various things I had seen in Chemical Warfare and The Golden  ----------------------- Page 165-----------------------  
Episodes. I had wanted to pull off a level like this since Abandon  E2L3.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 3, LEVEL 8 (#701)  Level name: Turn 2 Stone  Compiled: August –  November 2012    This originally appeared as level 6 in  The Iron Dream. It is a standard gray stone level, influenced by Kyle Albert and Ariel  and features a secret treasure stash which borrows ideas from original Wolf's E2L3.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 3, LEVEL 9  (#702)  Level name: The Cornfield  Compiled: August –  November 2012    This originally appeared as level 8 in  The Iron Dream, and was the last proper level made for the project. It featured more  focus on guards, interesting designs and took some time to beat. I enjoyed making it, and I think it's one of the more  original levels I have made recently. After making this level, I padded out the rest of The Iron Dream with levels from the  failed  Wolf Overkill project, the 2009 edition, which featured levels made with vastly different ideas than the new ones  from The Iron Dream, making it a disjointed, rushed release, but nevertheless the first eight levels were great, and this is  why I slotted them into Victory of Faith, as this is where I felt they belonged.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 3, LEVEL 10 (#703)  Level name: Fatness Abounds  Compiled: September – October 2014  Boss level    This was the only thoroughly new level made for the episode apa rt from E3L3. It's loosely based on E6L9, as it houses  the general, but is a tad more difficult.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 4, LEVEL 1  (#704)  Level name: Grayed Out  Compiled: September 9, 2013    This was the first level made for Abandon III, and is a byproduct of my newly found inspiration from playing The False  Spear. It is a pretty bleak, slow kind of opening level, probably culled from Wolfenstein Collection, a mod I sadly never  progressed much in but always admired for its difficulty and design. This was the first time in a long while I had put  together a proper level, and it felt great to be able to do it all again.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 4, LEVEL 2  (#705)  Level name: Blue in Green  Compiled: October –  December 2012    This level originally opened the Lost Episodes type map set I tried to put together, which was eventually coated with the  original Wolf graphics and released as Guten Tag! in December 2012. It is rather short, but I still enjoyed it and thought  ----------------------- Page 166-----------------------  
it fit the understated Episode 1 feel needed here.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 4, LEVEL 3  (#706)  Level name: Steeler  Compiled: October –  December 2012    This also had its origins in Guten Tag!, features some good ambush trickery and a good low-key feel. It uses the steel  texture extensively, which works to a certain degree, but I can see that some might tire of it easily.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 4, LEVEL 4  (#707)  Level name: Simplicity  Compiled: October –  December 2012    This also had its origins in Guten Tag! and features a gold key area much inspired by Ariel. I suppose The Golden  Episodes hung heavy in the air when I put these levels together, much as it had done when I put together  The Iron  Dream.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 4, LEVEL 5  (#708)  Level name: Brickwalled  Compiled: June 2012    I am fairly certain this originally featured as an opening level for a failed Spear map set, made as my progress moved into  50 % done territory for Thomas' Wolfenstein 3-D. Of course, it never materialized, and the level was lying around, so I  fixed it up and put it in The Iron Dream.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 4, LEVEL 6  (#709)  Level name: Moss  Compiled: September – October 2014    This is the first thoroughly new standard level since E3L3. It was made after a break, though the general idea of this and  the following two  levels had been lying around since the summer. The level is vast in size, and I cannot recognize any  particular influence on it.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 4, LEVEL 7  (#710)  Level name: Mess  Compiled: September – October 2014    The name of the level stems from the fact that I originally envisioned a large mess hall, but that would get old  eventually. The level is therefore mixed, but still features substantial kitchen areas.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 4, LEVEL 8  (#711)  Level name: Mass  Compiled: September – October 2014  ----------------------- Page 167-----------------------    This level plays rather strangely, but my idea was that the player alerted someone, went for him, and eventually alerted  the remaining guards, who would then run through all the small tunnels leading out of the main room. I envision the  officer facing south making a speech, with the remaining guards being his audience. This level was more an experiment  than a vital part of the episode, but it was fun to make and if played on skill 4, it can become a bit of a nail-biter – at least  it was for me.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 4, LEVEL 9  (#712)  Level name: Colossal Remiss  Compiled: September – October 2014    With this level died my hunger for experimentation. It plays interestingly, but I still think I should have changed bits and  pieces. The Final Solution was an inspiration, but most of all I just aimed for inciting chaos and having the over-sized extra  life displayed in the middle of the hectic battlefield, just to taunt the player.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 4, LEVEL 10 (#713)  Level name: Hans-On  Compiled: October –  December 2012  Boss level    This is the boss level from  Guten Tag!, which obviously featured Hans as the boss originally, so the selection of this level  was natural. This was the last old level used in the mod, turning Episodes 5 and 6 into the only ones containing wholly  new levels exclusively.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 5, LEVEL 1  (#714)  Level name: Mutilation  Compiled: October –  November 2014    I think Episode 5 contains some of the best levels I have ever made. This opening level is no exception. As this episode is  loosely based on Episode 2, I went all-in on mutants, the old castle/nuclear bunker crossover and the excitement  leading to the final showdown with Dr. Schabbs.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 5, LEVEL 2  (#715)  Level name: Mutanasia  Compiled: October –  November 2014    This is rather clean in its outlook compared to the surrounding levels, but it's still very good. I suppose  Totengraeber level  81 was an influence as it was on so many other levels featuring a castle with surroundings.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 5, LEVEL 3  (#716)  Level name: Death/Mute  Compiled: October –  November 2014    ----------------------- Page 168-----------------------  
This level was a joy to make. While making these levels I felt rejuvenated and wanted to give my best to finish this mod  off properly.    VICTORY OF FAITH,  EPISODE 5, LEVEL 4 (#717)  Level name: Nightmute  Compiled: November 6, 2014    Though this is rather short, it was fun to make and to play. The fact that the guards are shut out in the silver key room  just adds to the strange, dark atmosphere of the episode.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 5, LEVEL 5  (#718)  Level name: Mutiny  Compiled: November 7, 2014    This is in my top 3 of the mod. I loved making it, and knew that it was going to be fun to play.  The Golden Episodes and  Totengraeber level 63 were obvious influences, and I was now finally getting to feel that marching guards and my design  ideas could get along.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 5, LEVEL 6  (#719)  Level name: Mutification  Compiled: November 2014    This is a rather tough level, but it can definitely be won,  it features meticulous designs, a lot of mutants, and was a joy to  make and to play.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 5, LEVEL 7  (#720)  Level name: Permutations  Compiled: November 2014    Though this is a bit on the short side, it still works out for the better. It has an obvious Gary Ragland influence, but is still  spacious and more modern in its approach.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 5, LEVEL 8  (#721)  Level name: Rrrarrgh!  Compiled: November 2014    This level furthers the idea that brown stone is also useful in situations alien to Episode 6, e.g. blood, bones and mutants  all over the level. I had tremendous fun making this level, and it turned out much better than I hoped.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 5, LEVEL 9  (#722)  Level name: Muten Tag  Compiled: November 2014    ----------------------- Page 169----------------------- 
 This is another corker, a huge, extraordinary thing which was made in one sitting. Though it's difficult, it was a labor of  love.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 5, LEVEL 10 (#723)  Level name: Schabbed Out  Compiled: November 2014  Boss level    As I had made several tough Schabbs levels in the past, I toned ideas down for this particular level. It still demands some  sort of challenge, and ends this great episode on a respectable note.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 1  (#724)  Level name: Keep It Simple  Compiled: November –  December 2014    As the title suggests, this opening level is utterly simple and a straight take on Episode 3 on which this episode is loosely  based. Laz Rojas and Ariel were obvious influences here.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 2  (#725)  Level name: Vanilla Pfutsch  Compiled: November –  December 2014    This reprises the original E3L2 with the opening room, the secret area and the chain gun. The locked doors leading to the  elevator was a slightly cheap move, though. Again, my fear of guards ruining the idea of finding the keys got the better of  me.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 3  (#726)  Level name: Red Sector A  Compiled: November –  December 2014    Obviously inspired by Ariel, it plays as a respectable, spacious level. I do not recall much about making it, though, other  than it took some time to get started.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 4  (#727)  Level name: Hitlerion  Compiled: November –  December 2014    This features interesting design and some nice secret area trickery. I don't know where the odd title came from.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 5  (#728)  Level name: Hanga Roa  Compiled: November –  December 2014    ----------------------- Page 170-----------------------  
The teal ceiling made this level cozier, and I look back on it with fondness. Yet again  The Golden Episodes played its part in  terms of inspiration.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 6  (#729)  Level name: Vanilla Pfutsch  Compiled: December 2014 – January 2015    This level features an ambush area for which the player will eventually pick up the key. The opening room is rather big,  but I was still very much into large, understated designs.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 7  (#730)  Level name: Black Forest  Compiled: December 2014 – January 2015    This level was inspired by WLHack and his efforts for Nazi Operation. The gray stone #3 up against wood panel were  obviously taken from E3L7.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 8  (#731)  Level name: Rojal Treatment  Compiled: January 10, 2015    As the name suggests, this was inspired by Laz Rojas. I don't know what caused this, as I hadn't pl ayed Laz Rojas levels for  a while when this was made, but it's still an enjoyable, Episode 3 type of level, which was very much the episode I aimed  to represent.    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 9  (#732)  Level name: Colossus Dei  Compiled: January 17, 20 15    This was inspired by End of Destiny level 3, though it's flawed in its edges and may come across as being rushed. I assure  you it took a long time getting the design down, and it ended up being a chaotic colossus, albeit with much more space  and openness than those of All This & Wolf 3D .    VICTORY OF FAITH, EPISODE 6, LEVEL 10 (#733)  Level name: The Lowedown  Compiled: January 19, 2015  Boss level    Parts of this level were inspired by Brian Lowe, hence the title. It featured Hitler in his final showdown, complete with  officers and Hitler ghosts. This concludes a mod which features a broad variety of levels, which was a joy to make, and I  do not consider the usage of The Iron Dream, Guten Tag! and Abandon III  levels as padding, as all projects together with  Victory of Faith very much shared the same spark and were conceived with the same mindset.    ----------------------- Page 171-----------------------  
The DieHard Wolfers' Lost Episodes Mapset  Released: July 26, 2015  Compiled: February 14, 2015    THE DIEHARD WOLFERS' LOST EPISODES MAPSET, LEVEL 1  (#734)  Level name: Jailbreak  Compiled: February 14, 2015    This community effort is an interesting set of levels. My entry was originally conceived as the first level of  Wolf Overdrive.  After a debacle where I flew off the handle in the forums' thread for this community effo rt, I learned that a designated  level spot isn't that important. However, I am happy that this level appears as the first level, as it was designed as such.  It  was my first level in a month, and it is quite bland all in all, but it plays OK for this Lost E pisodes set.    Wolf Overdrive  Released: December 21, 2015  Compiled: June 1 –  December 21, 2015    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 1 (#735)  Level name: Luger Me Now  Compiled: June 1, 2015    In the final stages of Victory of Faith  I realized I wanted to go back to basics once more in terms of atmosphere, selection  of bosses and graphics. Wolf Overdrive utilizes all the imagery found in both Wolf as well as Spear. The EXE was put  together in January and February, and I even made a level for it shortly after receiving it, wh ich surfaced as the above  mentioned level in the DieHard Wolfers' Lost Episodes Mapset.    Four months went by without much inspiration or activity. I knew I wanted to continue making levels, but I was fed up  with taking the same approach and see a lot of levels end up with a lot of obvious guard placement and overall structure  and flow. My original idea was the old concept, hence the opening level's title, but I wanted to make a mod that was  genuinely fun to play as well as being difficult. So I made the mac hine gun available as early as level 2 and did not dwell  on saving officers, mutants or SS guards. I wanted to couple  Totengraeber and Schabbs 2000 via modern efforts like  Serpens' The Trilogy Revisited, Ipank7000's iLOW3D and Gerolf's SS . Fresh levels with the same mindset as the old  stalwarts, I thought met each other pretty good somewhere in the middle.    The opening level was fun enough to play, a good indication of what I wanted then. Having only a pistol can be a pain  sometimes if you just want the mutants to get out of the way in order for you to move on. I liked the openness of starting  in a closed compound with the outside that the player will eventually reach being rubbed in its nose.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 2 (#736)  Level name: Purpendicular  Compiled: June 1, 2015    Continuing my burst of inspiration, this level introduces an original re-coloring of mine; purple slime on the familiar gray  ----------------------- Page 172-----------------------  
slime stone. Experimentation with color is evident here and throughout this mod. I liked how it looked, and seeing as  nobody had used this particular color in this fashion before, I thought why the hell not. The level itself is all right, it was  more or less an E2L3 and E2L6 idea I expanded upon.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 3 (#737)  Level name: S&M I  Compiled: June 1, 2015    After months of no activity, beginning the third level in one day felt exhilarating. I always thought the SS guards and the  mutants were simpatico in terms of viciousness, so I made a handful of levels for this mod where they ruled the roost.  Using nuclear barrels and a heavy mutant atmosphere in the otherwise ordinary blue stone dungeon setting is something  that harks back to  Wolf Overkill's latter levels that never saw the light of day.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 4 (#738)  Level name: Caress of Steel  Compiled: June 4, 2015    This was started in the same run as the previous three levels, and burnout was evident. It took a couple more days for me  to get back into this level again, but once I did I think I managed it all right. The design with the huge opening ro om  featuring different "camps" containing keys and officers behind columns originate in an imaginary Wolf level I thought up  years and years ago when I became a big fan of playing Episode 5 and 6 shortly after getting the full version of Wolf.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 5 (#739)  Level name: Way to Blue  Compiled: July 21, 2015    After finishing level 4, I knew I wanted to make levels that would stand out from my usual way of making levels. Rapid  change is out of the question, at least just from day to day, when you've been doing this for more than ten years. But I  grew a lot over the summer in terms of Wolf ideas, I played a lot of older map sets, I played Remake  by Ken O'Brien,  reacquainted myself with Schabbs 2000 and Revival of Memories and delved into acktung!  properly for the first time in a  long, long while. I also played some of the newer sets, iLOW3D and various older sets I hadn't played in ages, e.g. The  Road to Neuschwanstein and a lot of classic stuff. Watching YouTube videos of various mods helped a lot as well.  Somehow all these things combined bottled up a lot of impetus for me to rethink my guard placement approach,  evidenced by excessive marching guards being used throughout the entire mod starting with this level.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 6 (#740)  Level name: Mega Magenta  Compiled: July 23, 2015    The first couple of levels saw me making more subdued levels with not that much in them. Simplicity was key. I kept  telling myself big levels aren't necessarily how it should be, but as it turned out I just naturally wanted levels that took up  a huge amount of the 64x64 slate. The opening room was inspired by Chokage, but otherwise I was just channeling what I  already knew with purple stone.  ----------------------- Page 173-----------------------    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 7 (#741)  Level name: Confrontations  Compiled: July 23, 2015    This level was made immediately after the previous level, and I was very, very satisfied with the output. I have always  wanted to pull off more elaborate marching patterns, so having a lot of guards walking into different rooms and ending  up in the usual hallway loop was really pleasing for me to have in one of my levels at last. The opening room owes a lot to  Schabbs 2000  level 17, but is, as evidenced by its title, an Episode 6 pastiche. Using Hans Grosse as a domestic guard  instead of placing the gold key on its own always pleased me, so I laid my defenses down for this mod and decided that  he, along with the Hitler ghost, had full permission to appear in whichever level I wanted them to.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 8 (#742)  Level name: Fatty Morgana  Compiled: July 25, 2015  Boss level    The re-colored blue brick was something I did myself and I enjoyed this particular nuance of blue. It fit perfectly with the  original Wolf sprites. Boss levels were still not an environment where I felt most at home, but this is a pretty good level  nonetheless. Having designated secret and boss levels was good, it gave me something to adhere to which I did my best  to honor.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 9 (#743)  Level name: Square Roots  Compiled: July 26, 2015    Schabbs 2000  level 18 was a major inspiration for this level's brown concrete area. In terms of design and ideas, I did my  best to impersonate both Totengraeber as well as the forever lost Wolf Overkill  levels from 2010-12.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 10 (#744)  Level name: Cavity Search  Compiled: July 28, 2015    The yellow cave wall from the Lost Episodes always went together well with the standard gray slime. I coupled those here  and drew on their respective influences. Otherwise the level is very much inspired by  Totengraeber levels 10 and 11.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 11 (#745)  Level name: Focal Matter  Compiled: July 29, 2015    This level features mainly just mutants, though some of the old regular guards pop up as well. It was fun to make, quite  difficult I suppose, but I'm still very pleased with it.    ----------------------- Page 174-----------------------  
WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 12 (#746)  Level name: All Blues  Compiled: August 1, 2015    All the while focusing on blue and all shades of this particular color, it also includes more elaborate marching patterns. I  was doing my best to channel AReyeP with the floor lamp area in the silver key room. The re-colored cornfield texture  was something I did myself, seeing as it had not been done before. I really enjoyed making this level, playing it was very  tough, but that is all part of this mod.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 13 (#747)  Level name: Open House  Compiled: August 9, 2015    This idea had long festered in my mind: Having a level with guards marching all over the entire level, no exceptions. It  turned out in practice to be quite difficult, and often guards would gang up on you, but I nevertheless made an actual  level out of it.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 14 (#748)  Level name: Hypertension  Compiled: August 9, 2015    Feeling refreshed after having made the previous level, as its concept had been a dream of mine to fulfill one day, I  turned my attention to another Episode 6/Gary Ragland send-up. The purple ceiling color felt natural for me to use. I was  still a bit on the fence as to allowing mutants to integrate with the other guards. I always felt they were special material,  unlike Gary Ragland who is probably my biggest inspiration.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 15 (#749)  Level name: Sore Asses  Compiled: August 13, 2015    Along with difficulty and guard placement, colors were the third ingredient in what I wa nted to pull over with this  particular mod. Sometimes it got the better of me. I enjoyed this level immensely, but there are bits and pieces where  differing textures were perhaps not that important. Nevertheless, the sky blue ceiling made it all worthwhile.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 16 (#750)  Level name: Brickadoon  Compiled: August 16, 2015    This is less varied in color, being primarily red and blue with the same brick wall texture. This reprises level 12 with the  vast, extensive marching guard hallway not too far from where the player starts.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 17 (#751)  Level name: Cock-a-Hoop  ----------------------- Page 175-----------------------  
Compiled: August 19, 2015    The cheddar cheese yellow ceiling may be a bit off-putting to some, but it felt the thing to do for me at the time. A secret  area reveals an extra life, something I have been more cautious with over the years as to not spoil the player too much.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 18 (#752)  Level name: Cyan Ide  Compiled: August 20, 2015    Teal, turquoise, cyan, whatever you want to name it, has always been a favorite color of mine and within Wolf it always  felt natural. The cave area leading to the silver key was quite difficult, I remember, but by this time, having almost  exclusively marching guards in entire levels began to feel the standard.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 19 (#753)  Level name: Wilhelm Aweigh  Compiled: August 23, 2015  Boss level    This level lacks imagination just a little bit, as I was still struggling with boss levels. It nevertheless contains a very g ood  secret area leading to a secret level. I did my best to really hide these levels away, showing little mercy to the casual  player.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 20 (#754)  Level name: Mutopia  Compiled: August 28, 2015    This features two very distinct colors, bright green and pink. I always wanted to cou ple these two, and making a vicious  mutant level using these should prove a perfect misery for the player. Very bright, very difficult, a sense of wanting to  finish this level as quick as possible just to stop the constant beaming green.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 21 (#755)  Level name: Fausticuffs  Compiled: August 29, 2015    This saw a return to a more standard level, with the dark green ceiling from Spear's opening level, though utilizing a full  cast of guards mingling with each other, even mutants. I valued difficulty and wanted to make the player beg, I suppose.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 22 (#756)  Level name: Pat's Delight  Compiled: August 30, 2015    The epitome of taunting the player would be this level. There are mercy secret areas, so it is not impossible to wi n this,  but it is very, very difficult. One huge prison level with very few if any borders had also been a dream of mine to pursue  ----------------------- Page 176-----------------------  
for a long time. Featuring a vast quantity of marching guards, alerting more than a hundred with one shot, this level was  also where I started to realize the dangers of going for near-impossible difficulty at the expense of some players'  sensibilities.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 23 (#757)  Level name: Tough Cookie  Compiled: August 30, 2015    The opening room is a bit messy, but the rest of the level is pretty good, even if a little too difficult at times. I enjoyed the  large secret area with the mutants and the Hitler ghost.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 24 (#758)  Level name: Malicious  Compiled: September 3, 2015    Probably inspired by Krankenstein  I wanted a large lab/hospital level using only standard Wolf atmosphere sprites and  walls. I think I pulled it off pretty well, even if the difficulty exposed in level 22 still hangs a bit too heavy in the air . I  enjoyed making it. I surprised myself  making this mod, as I never intended to deliberately make huge levels that take up  most of the 64x64 slate, but somehow the majority of them turned out that way.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 25 (#759)  Level name: The Coolout  Compiled: September 4, 2015    This is the long deserved relaxed level after many levels of tough and extensive amounts of guards. However, there is an  E2L7 effect to this level, as a large portion of it is hidden away, containing a secret level. In this secret part, we again  experience no mercy with heavy mutant presence.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 26 (#760)  Level name: What, Me Worry?  Compiled: September 8, 2015    In terms of texture and atmosphere this level is all over the place. Softwood panels, castle walls, hospital/lab tiles, red  bricks and even a dungeon part pieces it together.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 27 (#761)  Level name: Hell Patrol  Compiled: September 11, 2015    This is another one of those whose idea floated around long before I gathered strength and stamina enough to actually  build it. Since the days of Abandon  I'd always had a fascination for "hell" levels, inspired by Doom, probably. This is quite  difficult and very open, but it is still definitely not too difficult to not enjoy. The level's name comes from a Judas Priest  song, a nod to Ariel.  ----------------------- Page 177-----------------------    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 28 (#762)  Level name: Schabbergasted  Compiled: September 16, 2015  Boss level    Old stalwart Dr. Schabbs is firmly in place in this level, which also features a nod to Episode 2 with the slimy area. These  two atmospheres don't work out that well together here, at least in terms of color, but I thought it appropriate.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 29 (#763)  Level name: Penal Colony  Compiled: October 2, 2015    I was slowly running out of steam after having been idle since late July. But there was no burnout feeling, it was simply  about inspiration. There was no use of me trying to start a level if I had no ideas. Eventually I came around, and pulled off  another huge level, this time with a brown concrete/prison atmosphere.    WOLF OVERDRIVE,  LEVEL 30 (#764)  Level name: Bavarian Khatru  Compiled: October 8, 2015    Seeing as the complimentary color of teal is coral, I did my best to match the ceiling color. Perhaps it comes off a bit too  bright for some, but personally I can live with it. There is a fairly large brown stone part as well which matches it a bit  better.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 31 (#765)  Level name: Tits Up  Compiled: October 27, 2015    I was freewheeling after having made the initial structure, with the more extensive and deliberate marching guards of the  earlier levels seeming merely a chore. That said, it still makes for an OK level with an unpleasant surprise to the player if  the secret elevator is located.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 32 (#766)  Level name: Panopticon  Compiled: November 5, 2015    In October and November I was playing a lot of the original Doom game and Doom II using the ZDoom port. I really, really  enjoyed it, and draw a lot of inspiration from it with this level, a very open, difficult outdoor kind of level. Coupled with  inspiration from ack, I felt it appropriate to give large opening areas, marching guards and deaf guards a proper interplay  with each other.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 33 (#767)  ----------------------- Page 178-----------------------  
Level name: Futile Crescent  Compiled: November 14, 2015    On this particular day I had an edgy concept in mind, but felt it more appropriate just to go with what I knew best, which  was color, structure and learning better enemy placement. It turned out a much larger level than I had anticipated.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 34 (#768)  Level name: Crapped Out  Compiled: November 20, 2015    I remember sitting down with zero ideas but determination to do something. 45 minutes later the structure of this entire  level was finished. The guards weren't added until later, but I felt rejuvenated. I was always fond of slimy levels that  weren't too slimy; using gray stone and its less slimier variation.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 35 (#769)  Level name: Red Shift  Compiled: November 20, 2015    The initial structure of this level was built exactly after the previous leve l, and as with that one, the guards were put in  later. The wood panel area leading to the gold key area I was especially pleased with. I did my best to impersonate both  Gary Ragland and AReyeP here.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 36 (#770)  Level name: 1-2-3  Compiled: November 21, 2015  Boss level    Having Hitler as a boss without it being the final level was something I picked up in Chemical Warfare which actually  includes him several times, almost in the same manner I've included Hans Grosse in this mod. The level was pieced  together by actually mounting sections of E1L1, E1L5, E2L1, E2L3 and E2L7 into the 64x64 slate and tweaking them to  make them fit, with wholly new sprinklings on the side. I really enjoyed this. No sections from any Episode 3 level were  included,  but I did my best to spoof E3L9 in Hitler's room. This was made over a week or so, with guards being added  later, and the various structures of the original Wolf level taking a whole lot more time to put in than I thought.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 37 (#771)  Level name: Sky Noose  Compiled: December 6, 2015    I woke up one day after having dreamed playing a vast, altered E5L6, and did my best to impersonate the dream here.  The column area with the ending elevator reminds me of Doom in some sort or other. As wit h the previous levels, its  initial structure was in place long before the guards were added.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 38 (#772)  ----------------------- Page 179-----------------------  
Level name: Sacre Bleu  Compiled: December 7, 2015    I was running out of ideas, and this particular hallway-based level could probably come across as being rather formulaic.  But it nevertheless got made, I particularly enjoyed the fountains lent to me by Ron who made these originally.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 39 (#773)  Level name: Boulder Dash  Compiled: December 13, 2015    This was inspired by AReyeP, and I particularly enjoyed the secret area with alerted guards that cannot come out to get  you. It has a slight Episode 6 feel.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 40 (#774)  Level name: Knight Fall  Compiled: December 21, 2015    The final level was inspired by the Death Knight's original level in Spear, and I had never before used him as a boss. The  level itself was fun enough to make, quite varied but very focused on brown, sandy themes. This ends a mod I had a lot of  fun making, and for the first time in a while this featured only entirely new levels, no old scraps, no re-makes. I am really  satisfied with it.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 41 (61) (#775)  Level name: Problemaries  Compiled: July 23, 2015  Secret level    A thing I thought wise was to make the secret levels immediately after finishing the levels from which they were  accessed. This particular level was probably only evidenced as being secret by its easily accessible amounts of treasure,  but there was a definite challenge here. For the first time in the mod, the chain gun is available, if the player wants to  open a secret area and defeat a Hitler ghost, that is. Having odd level numbers was something I had always wanted ever  since playing Totengraeber.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 42 (70) (#776)  Level name: Think Pink  Compiled: August 7, 2015  Secret level    This takes the pink color and makes it almost unbearable. I had envisioned a pink "wimp" level ever since the days of  Secrets of Offenbach and even made one for  Wolf Overkill  but this is the first released one, probably more focused than  any other previous attempt. Again it's difficult for a bonus level, but the player is rewarded in treasure.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 43 (78) (#777)  ----------------------- Page 180-----------------------  
Level name: Dismal  Compiled: August 27, 2015  Secret level    The idea of this level was in place shortly before I began making it. All in all, I suppose it is a bit on the tough side for a  secret level, but the way certain things are placed made it inappropriate for standard level use, I thought.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 44 (84) (#778)  Level  name: S&M II  Compiled: September 5, 2015  Secret level    This continues the idea from level 3, only including mutants and SS guards. Again it is very difficult, but I had so much fun  making it that I kind of forgot the rewarding side to secret levels. Again treasure makes up for the ideal of battling guards  on a regular level scale.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 45 (90) (#779)  Level name: S&M III  Compiled: October 29, 2015  Secret level    Following the previous secret level's approach this again focuses on the most vicious standard guards, the mutant and  the SS guard. In terms of atmosphere it swings from slimy, cartoony cave to standard caves and slick blue wall areas, but  most importantly it contains a super secret level. These were implemented in Wolf Overkill as well but these were my  first released super secret levels.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 46 (91) (#780)  Level name: Treasure Trough  Compiled: October 30, 2015  Super secret level    Though the treasure is not that extensive and in your face compared to how it could h ave been, I felt a more subdued yet  still rewarding approach was the way to go. It features plenty of guards, including officers behind spear racks (an idea  from Brian Lowe) and a Commander Keen Easter egg.    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 47 (97) (#781)  Level name: Slimate Change  Compiled: December 7, 2015  Secret level    This is more blatant in terms of treasure but still has an actual, even a bit difficult level around it. I really, really enj oyed  making it, but as with other levels made towards the end of this project, this only saw the guards put in a while after the  initial structure was in place. This also contains a super secret level.  ----------------------- Page 181-----------------------    WOLF OVERDRIVE, LEVEL 48 (0) (#782)  Level name: Putten Take  Compiled: December 7, 2015  Secret level    After Tristan van Putten made himself available again as a member of the Wolf community, I was reminded on how much  an influence The Final Solution  had on me, and how its inaccessible level 0 was such an oddball, delightful level to play.  This is also dubbed level 0, uses the exact same idea, but is able to access and to exit as well. It was a thrill to make and to  play. I only wish the floor could have been made black as well.    Frantic Passages  Released: December 4, 2018  Compiled: December 11, 2016 –  December 4, 2018    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 1 (#783)  Level name: Peanut Gallery  Compiled: December 11, 2016    In the wake of having released Wolf Overdrive  I was very much in the mood for taking a break from Wolfing activities for  most of 2016. I still kept active and had the odd urge now and again, but nothing ever materialized until November and  December, after having experimented with making graphics. The graphics in this mod are heavily influenced by music,  cheesy humor, memes and vivid colors. Though I valued making proper levels in spite of the playful graphical theme, I  feel Michael Collin was a big inspiration for this particular mod.  I was lucky to have AlumiuN help me out with coding, and  doomjedi helped out with the texture featuring Andy’s avatar and the pink officer guard.    The opening level is one of my typical opening levels, featuring a gray slime entry peppered with many adjacent small  rooms and long hallways. Though there is a slight battle in getting to the machine gun, I had long abandoned the ideas  that better weapons took many levels to get to; for this mod, I wanted it to be a fun shoot ‘em up experience from the  get go.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 2 (#784)  Level name: Golden Slumbers  Compiled: December 11, 2016    The colors represented here, and the extravagant castle layout harkens back to  Wolf Overdrive which was just about one  year old by the time I made this. After having made this level with its many light colors and its predictability, in my mind,  I  decided to change gears and shed some of the Nocturnal Episode styles that I had long favored.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 3 (#785)  Level name: The Shitlist  Compiled: March 5, 2017    ----------------------- Page 182-----------------------  
I was very satisfied with this level when I first made it. The sewer/gray slime layout makes for a menacing play, and the  number of guards should add to the difficulty. The narrow hallways in parts of the level were structures I usually did not  tamper with much, but I was experimenting here.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 4 (#786)  Level name: Immer Lustig  Compiled: March 5, 2017    I was very pleased with the previous level, and my creative juices were flowing again. I made this level shortly after  having play tested the previous level, and decided to take a slight E6L6 approach with many adjoining rooms with 2x2  paths. Again, there are a few narrow passages – something I felt I had to try out.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 5 (#787)  Level name: Natural Science  Compiled: March 12, 2017    I distinctly recall starting up this level shortly after finishing the previous; this marks the first time in a long, long while  that I had three levels going in the same day. I did not finish it, though. Ideas came later on, and were added. Some  designs are more daring than I usually am when utilizing the brown weave texture. The light brown feel of the level is  meant to evoke the dusty, desert-like feel from old warhorses such as the original Wolf’s E4L5.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 6 (#788)  Level name: Aaand It’s Gone  Compiled: November 26, 2017    Sometime after finishing level 5, I started making this level but it just did not take. Then I left it alone for a long time and  finished it up after getting some sort of inspiration, namely after having spent my little free time in 2017 playing  Atomprojekt  and some of Executor’s ECWolf mods. The design of this level was wrought from the start.  I finished it  begrudgingly, and for a long time considered replacing it before releasing this mod. But after reconsidering, I decided it  was best to keep it in. They can’t all be winners.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 7 (#789)  Level name: Courtesy Flush  Compiled: November 26, 2017    Having cleared out the cobwebs of the previous level, the slate was wiped clean and I could now create a wholly new  level. I decided to start with what I knew, and wing it from there. There is a reference to Dark Dungeon E5L2 in the secret  area with the vast landscape visible behind columns and mutants. This level set me on the slow route of determination to  finish this mod once and for all. Originally having envisioned 60 levels, then 40, then 30, then 24, I soon decided that 17  levels was the right amount, in terms of realistic ambitions from my side, in making the levels, and from the player’s point  of view.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 8 (#790)  ----------------------- Page 183-----------------------  
Level name: Gwennan Gorn  Compiled: December 10, 2017    I have made my fair share of cubic castle levels with surroundings. But I was particularly satisfied with this one, as the  many columns should entice the player in getting around the level. I was also very satisfied with Hans Grosse being  unavoidable.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 9 (#791)  Level name: Aphasia  Compiled: December 10, 2017    Feeling rejuvenated after the previous level, I threw myself into making this level in one, long sitting. I think it took two or  three hours. The checkered marble works wonders, and I was really into making a lobby style level, almost as much as I  was back in 2004. Other parts worked well, I thought, e.g. the  brief Spear stone wall section which was inspired by  Totengraeber level 23.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 10 (#792)  Level name: Mr. V.R.  Compiled: January 7, 2018    I was a big fan of Ron van Rijen’s levels in the Team Raycast projects, the SOD Extreme mods and in  his own projects. I  was inspired to make something that was wide open, difficult and focused more on battle and unorthodox manners to  construct a level than the simple castle/battle/gold/ammo/key/repeat I was trying to shake off around this time. The  opening lair where you are greeted by Hans Grosse might have been a toughie to some, but I felt I had to try it out.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 11 (#793)  Level name: Outer Limits  Compiled: January 23, 2018    Sitting down to make a bleak level with focus less on colors, and more on a depressed, dank setting proved difficult. It  turned out much wider and expansive than I would have liked, but it felt all right once it was finished.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 12 (#794)  Level name: Ulan Bator  Compiled: August 5, 2018    As with the previous level, the idea of this level was it to be this make-believe underwater place, deep blue and hazy. This  did not last long. Again, I opted to go with a wider, more expansive layout as it made room for better battles. Starting a  level with a boss greeting, though the boss is far, far away was something I had wanted to do since at least 2016; it  became a recurring theme for me to do a level in this vein. In terms of color, I enjoy the level, and some of the designs  are all right; but it could have been executed just a little bit better, I think.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 13 (#795)  ----------------------- Page 184-----------------------  
Level name: Berliner Luft  Compiled: September 19, 2018    This was also a concept that had been lurking in the back of my mind for a while. I enjoy old-school outdoor levels;  Assault on Castle Totenhammer v0.3 Beta (look it up!), Wolf Skevos-Jones and even Spear Resurrection outdoor sections  played a part in inspiring me to do this, as did Ipank7000’s sets. It is very simplistic, though, and features a maze with a  Hans Grosse warning sign, something that I had also schemed long before making the actual level.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 14 (#796)  Level name: Overreaction  Compiled: September 24, 2018    I remember making the skeleton of this level, letting it rest for a few days, and then adding the guards. It is one of my  favorites of the mod; it features appropriate battle, marching guards and a more tasteful approach to decorat ion.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 15 (#797)  Level name: Losing It  Compiled: November 22, 2018    This came to me late one evening, and had guards added while the layout was being laid. This is not my usual practice,  which is sometimes why my guard placement seems quite unimaginative. The different parts of the level were pleasing;  the actual level is not that difficult, but it features a large secret section, something I had always wanted to do, much in  the vein of original Wolf’s E2L7 and  Totengraeber level 77.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 16 (#798)  Level name: Rock Love  Compiled: November 23, 2018    The skeletal idea for this level was laid down before guards were added, but I did my best to place them well and  unexpectedly in places. This reprises level 3 in that it is a slime level with equally slimy floors and ceiling. This is one of the  very best in the mod, I think. The officers behind columns in the silver key room stem from an old idea I got in 2002, long  before knowing what an editor was.    FRANTIC PASSAGES, LEVEL 17 (#799)  Level name: Hell on 64x64  Compiled: December 4, 2018  Boss level    I was very pleased with this boss level, as it melded several ideas I had had for a while. The usage of guards is  appropriate, not too difficult nor too easy, and featuring three of the original bosses under one roof was always an  enticing idea to me. This was finished, tested, sent off to release all in the same night, on the eve of my first mod,  Abandon’s 14th anniversary. Despite its long genesis, I had a lot of fun making this relatively short mod.    