Page | 2
TABLES OF CONTENTS
The Story…………………………………......3
Installation/Troubleshooting………….......6
Game Difficulties............................................8
Game Controls................................................9
Status Bar Info.................................................11
Game Basics.....................................................12
Weapons...........................................................13
Infernal Powers………………………………17
Items..................................................................18
Enemies.............................................................24
Hints/Strategies...............................................32
Credits................................................................36
Contacting the Author.....................................40Page | 3
STORY
In a time and place where chaos, violence, and crime were rampant, two
brothers, Sartana and Pike, were renowned and feared. Born as twins in
1840, they had become the most sought after hired guns in the west by the
time they were 20. Eventually, their reputation had earned the attention of
civil war officers and between 1861 and 1865, they fought for the Union.
Together, they racked up quite the body count and both earned medals of
honor for valor and devotion by the end of the war.
After the war, the two brothers made their living as bounty hunters. As the
two further developed their reputation, Sartana noticed Pike slowly
turning into someone he did not recognize. Pike became cruel and ruthless.
He didn't just simply kill the men who had bounties on their heads; he
would capture them, bind them, and torture them over long periods of
time. Eventually, Pike changed his name to Devil Eyes. It was fitting given
the fact that Pike enjoyed gazing deeply into the eyes of his victims as the
life slowly left their bodies.
Some years later, news about people being kidnapped in the dead of the
night for unknown reasons spread like wildfire. The kidnappings were
committed by a mysterious cult, led by a trio called the Unholy Trinity.
Bounties were put in place for various cult members. The rewards were
high, so high that Pike became greedy. He no longer wanted to split the
rewards, which caused a rift between the two brothers. One night, while
Sartana was sleeping, Pike went out on his own in search of the cult.
Sartana awoke in shock, knowing that his brother had abandoned him. He
was alone.
After a couple more years of lone bounty hunting, Sartana yearned for the
quiet life and made way for North Carolina where much of his family lived
at the time. During his trek, an enigmatic hooded lady, seeming to appear
from thin air, approached him, claiming to have news of his brother's
whereabouts. Sartana was convinced that the woman was lying until shePage | 4
tossed him Pike's prized Colt 45. He knew it was Pike's peacemaker
because his initials were chiseled on the side of the gun.
Sartana asked the lady about Pike's location. She unraveled an ancientlooking map 
and pointed to an island, uncharted on any conventional map
at the time, near the Bermuda Triangle. She called the place Isla de la
Sombra (Island of the Shadow). She then gave Sartana directions on where
to acquire a boat to get to the island. Sartana then asked the strange lady
how she knew where to find him and how she knew about Pike. An impish
grin crawled on her pallid face as she said, "my master knows everything…
and you and your brother both bear the mark."
Sartana, confused, inquired about the mark. The woman pointed to the
birth mark on the back of Sartana's neck and said, "You two were destined
to be his left and right hand." She then walked away. Sartana called for her,
but his calls fell on deaf ears as the hooded lady disappeared into the pitch
black night.
Against his better judgment, Sartana decided to go find his brother. He
headed south, amassing food and resources along the way, to the border of
Georgia where he acquired the boat to get to Shadow Island.
After a few days of sailing, the boat crashed into a sandy shore in the
middle of the night, waking Sartana from his slumber. He wasn’t sure if he
had arrived at his destination or some random island. Regardless, he was
weary from sailing and sought rest.
Sartana moored his boat and stepped foot on the sandy shore, proceeding
toward a vast forest in search of a suitable place to camp. As Sartana set up
camp, robed hooligans emerged out of nowhere. He was surrounded.
Sartana instantly reached for his Colt, but before he could get a single shot
off, he was knocked out by a massive blow to the back of the head. Sartana
awoke the next night in a decrepit vacant room lit by candlelight, stripped
of his weapons, bound to an altar, and encircled by dark hooded figuresPage | 5
decked out in long voluminous robes as black as night. A tall handsome
man in a dusty grey coat and an open crown hat upon his head appeared
in the distance, slowly making his way toward Sartana. It was Pike, except
he was not the same.
His skin had an uncanny pallor and his eyes glinted like emeralds frozen in
ice. Pike gazed upon his brother. A dire grin slowly formed on his face,
revealing tiger-like teeth. Sartana, in a weak voice, asked, "what happened
to you Pike?"
Pike responded, "call me Devil Eyes." After that, Devil Eyes unsheathed a
silver ritualistic blade and stabbed it deep into his brother's heart. Darkness
cloaked Sartana's eyes as death enveloped him in its abysmal grasp. There
was no telling what lied ahead…Page | 6
INSTALLATION
SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
Beyond the Grave is for Windows operating systems only (Windows XP
and above).
To play the game, you just need to double click on the GRAVE.exe file after
unzipping the files. This mod is standalone, so no additional files or
software is needed to play it. This game can be distributed free of charge.
Please share with your friends!
SCREEN RESOLUTIONS
Beyond the Grave’s native resolution is 640x400. To change the game’s
screen resolution, right click on the “run.bat” file and select edit. Once in
notepad, change the “960 600” numbers to your desired resolution (e.g.,
1280 800), save file, and then exit. From there, double left-click on the
“run.bat” to play the game with a different resolution. NOTE: Resolutions
must be in multiples of either 320x200 (for widescreen) or 320x240 (for
fullscreen) or else you will get graphical errors.
TROUBLESHOOTING
I tried to make this game as glitch-free as possible, but nothing is perfect.
Here are some known issues with the game:
QUICKSAVING/QUICKLOADING: Using quicksave and quickload
(F8/F9) causes a lot of problems (e.g., inventory items are not saved
correctly). Go to the menu to save/load or use F2 and F3.
DISPLAY ISSUES: Minimizing the game causes the numbers on the HUD
to disappear. Try to avoid minimizing the game and don't play the game in
windowed mode.Page | 7
SOUND ISSUES: On rare occasions, the game is known to crash when a
MIDI track loops. Reload the game if this happens. Some players have also
reported that occasionally a certain sound doesn’t play (e.g., a particular
gun-firing sound). Reloading a previously saved game fixes this issue.
COMPATIBILITY: Some older computers (running on XP or below) and
some newer computers (running on windows 8.1 and sometimes windows
10) have issues with running the game (e.g., the game crashing upon
startup). Here are some things you can do to fix these issues:
-For Windows 10 users: try running the game using Windows 7 or 8.1
compatibility mode.
-For Windows 8.1 users: try running the game in Windows 7 compatibility
mode. Windows 8/8.1 does not seem to have as much of an issue running
the game as some newer computers using Windows 10.
-For Windows XP users: try running the game under Windows 98/ME in
256 color mode and the resolution setting marked.
OTHER ISSUES: Occasionally, the attack frames get messed up when
restarting a level after dying. Again, reloading a saved game or reloading
the game fixes the issue.
If you find any other problems, please let me know (see Contacting the
Author section).Page | 8
GAME DIFFICULTIES
When you start the game, you are prompted to choose between four
difficulties; the harder the difficulty, the stronger and more numerous the
enemies.
Where’s my grave? - This difficulty is only recommended for sissies
and people with no FPS/PC gaming experience. Note: there is no enemy
spawning on this difficulty, which eliminates a lot of the surprise/horror
elements in the game.
Maybe just a sip - This is a slightly better place for the inexperienced to
start than the previous (mainly because we won't make fun of you AS
MUCH for playing on this difficulty). Enemy spawning is left intact and
certain enemies are harder to kill.
Ravenous - This is the recommended difficulty setting to play the
game on. It provides a decent challenge even for experienced players as
enemies are faster moving and deal greater damage.
Even death will bleed - If you are a veteran player, a masochist… or
someone with suicidal tendencies, then this is a difficulty fit for you.
Sartana’s foes are larger in numbers, take more of a beating before going
down, and move faster than any of the other difficulties.Page | 9
GAME CONTROLS
KEYBOARD CONTROLS
Arrows…………………………..Move/Turn
W&S…………………………......Move Forward/Backpedal
A&D……………………………..Strafe Left/Right
Alt………………………………..Strafe
Shift………………………………Walk
Space……………………………..Use door/switch/pushwall
Ctrl……………………………….Primary Fire/Attack
X………………………………….Alternate Fire/Attack
R…………………………………..Reload
F…………………………………..Tertiary Attack (Kick/Demon Eyes)
Backspace………………………...Toggle Tertiary Attack
1…………………………………...Melee Weapons
2…………………………………...Six Shooters
3…………………………………...High Capacity Revolvers
4…………………………………...Shotguns
5…………………………………...Repeating Rifles
6…………………………………...Heavy Rifle
7…………………………….……..Rare Weapon
8.......................................................Demon Hands
Q…………………………………..Secret Weapon
9 & 0……………………………....Cycle through inventory itemsPage | 10
E…………………………………...Use selected inventory item
B…………………………………...Activate/Deactivate Beast Vision
Tab………………………………...Show time, current ratios, etc.
U…………………………………...Toggle Crosshair
M…………………………………..Show Level Map
P…………………………………...Capture screenshot
F1………………………………….Help
F2………………………………….Save game
F3………………………………….Load game
F4………………………………….Sound menu
F5………………………………….Full Screen On/Off
F6………………………………….Controls menu
F7………………………………….End Game
F10...................................................Quit
MOUSE CONTROLS
Direction………………………...Turn left/right
Button 1………………………….Primary Fire
Button 2………………………….Secondary Fire
Button 3………………………….Tertiary Attack
Mousewheel…………………….Cycle through inventory itemsPage | 11
STATUS BAR
1. The amount of wards you have.
2. This is your score. Collecting treasure and killing enemies increases
your score.
3. This is where your armor points are displayed.
4. These eyes light up when beast vision is in use or when you have
acquired the crystal ball.
5. This is where your life points are displayed.
6. Your ammo. Left side shows how much ammo you have left before
needing to reload. Right side is how much ammo you have in reserve.
7. Indicates what door keys you have and don’t have.
8. Your current weapon.
9. Beast vision energy (recharges when deactivated).
10. Your inventory items.
11. The amount of energy you have to use your Demon Eyes power.
ADDITIONAL INFO: Holding the ‘tab’ key down gives you access to
other pertinent information: time, treasure ratio, secret ratio, kill ratio,
treasure chests collected, and level name/number.Page | 12
GAME BASICS
PICKING THINGS UP
Even in the midst of all the darkness and turmoil, there's always time to
grab a few trinkets or helpful items. To pick up an item, simply walk over
it. Some items (power-ups and new weapons) will require you to press the
'use' key to pick up.
DOORS
Some doors (such as locked doors) are imbued with magical properties that
make them shut automatically shortly after being opened for inexplicable
reasons. Other doors stay opened; for these doors, it is a good idea to shut
them as some enemies (like zombies) are too stupid to open them. Press the
'use' key to open and shut doors.
PUSHWALLS
Some walls in Beyond the Grave can be pushed back to reveal secret
passages or hidden rooms with extra goodies. To find these secret areas,
move against a wall and press the ‘use’ key.
SWITCHES
Throughout your adventure, you will notice walls with rune-powered
switches. These switches open up areas of the map that would not be
accessible otherwise. Some switches open up secret areas of the map where
as some switches are necessary to activate in order to move on to a new
area of the map or exit a level.Page | 13
WEAPONS
The denizens of Shadow Island all have one common goal: to kill you. In
order to prevent them from succeeding, you will need to gather up an
arsenal of death-dealing instruments. Most weapons have a primary attack
and a secondary attack.
PUNCHING
You begin your quest armed with only your fists and a damaged machete.
Once you acquire a more competent weapon, you won't be using your fists
much... unless you have a death wish.
MACHETE
Accuracy: -
Power: Average
Speed: Average
Ammo: None, but can be broken
A large knife with a broad blade that can be very effective if you are able to
get it between you and your foes. The most wonderful thing about the
machete is its ability to maim and dismember. Enemies that fall to your
blade almost always die with a part (or parts) of their anatomy missing.
Note: the machete deals less damage when damaged. It can also be broken,
so use it wisely. The machete also has the capability of surprise attacking
enemies. If there's an enemy with his back turned, try sneaking up on him.
Sneak attacks kill most enemies in one hit, but not all enemies are
susceptible to it. A well-placed throwing dagger (see items section) is
usually the best way to kill an enemy with stealth.Page | 14
PEACEMAKER
Accuracy: Very Good
Power: Good
Speed: Average
Ammo: 45 caliber
An accurate single action revolver that packs a decent punch. It can shoot
faster, though less accurately, by fanning the hammer. The peacemaker is
probably one of the most versatile weapons in the game and is a favorite
among many gunslingers. The main drawback is its tedious reloading
process as bullets have to be loaded individually.
FRONTIER
Accuracy: Good
Power: Average
Speed: Very Good
Ammo: 38 caliber
A double action revolver made by two close friends of yours: Smith and
Wesson. This quick-shooter might not be as powerful or as accurate as the
peacemaker, but it makes up for it with its speed. Additionally, the
weapon's top break mechanism allows for the utilization of a speed loader
which makes reloading quicker.
RAINMAKERS
Accuracy: Average
Power: Poor
Speed: Excellent
Ammo: 22 caliber
Incredibly fast-shooting swing-out-cylinder revolvers that have been
modified to carry double the ammo capacity of a regular revolver. The
rainmakers are very handy in tight situations, and you can easily clear a
room with these twin brothers when used with a rage artifact.Page | 15
BOOMSTICK
Accuracy: Ugly
Power: Very Ugly
Speed: Poor
Ammo: Shells
The Boomstick is a very reliable ally indeed. It may lack a lot of accuracy,
but you aren't using a double-barrel shotgun for accuracy now are you!?
This weapon can be fired either one barrel at a time or both at once for
maximum damage.
THE SAVAGE
Accuracy: Poor
Power: Excellent
Speed: Poor
Ammo: Slugs
The Boomstick's bigger, badder brother. This semi-auto beast will hurl
your foes into an early grave with relative ease. Though it deals quite a
punch and can carry more ammo than its double-barreled brother,
reloading this weapon is slow and cumbersome.
THE RECTIFIER
Accuracy: Very Good
Power: Good
Speed: Very Good
Ammo: 44-40 WCF
This fast, high capacity repeater carbine is probably the most well-balanced
firearm in your arsenal. It is an ideal weapon for killing groups of lesser
enemies.Page | 16
THE REAPER
Accuracy: Excellent
Power: Very Good
Speed: Good
Ammo: Silver Bullets
A powerful repeater carbine that shoots high caliber silver bullets. It is
more powerful and slightly more accurate than The Rectifier. Great for
wiping out more powerful foes, especially those pesky werewolves.
THE DEVIL'S MULE
Accuracy: Excellent
Power: Enemy will not be recognizable
Speed: Very Poor
Ammo: Incendiary
This mule doesn't like it when people are laughing. He gets the funny
feeling they are laughing at him. Well... they won't be laughing very long
when the trigger is pulled. One shot from this monster turns even the
hardiest beasts inside out.Page | 17
INFERNAL POWERS
Returning from the dead not only made Sartana stronger than ever but also
granted him unholy powers from the other side.
BEAST VISION
Beast vision illuminates your foes in the darkness, making them easier to
see. Press ‘B’ to activate/deactivate beast vision.
MIGHTY KICK (tertiary attack)
The fact that Sartana can kill his adversaries by bludgeoning them with his
fists is a testament to his unnatural physical strength. In addition to
punching, Sartana can also (surprise, surprise) kick the shit out of his
enemies. It deals more damage than punching but is much slower. The
mighty kick is the first of two tertiary attacks; it can be used while
equipped with weapons. Press ‘F’ or the middle mouse button to use this
attack.
DEMON EYES (tertiary attack)
Using this ability, Sartana can emit a fiery stream of death from the
windows of his soul. However, unlike Beast Vision, this power is not
innate and must be earned. This is the second tertiary attack; it also can be
used while equipped with weapons. Press ‘F’ or the middle mouse button
to use this power once it becomes available. Press ‘Backspace’ to toggle
between Mighty Kick and Demon Eyes.
DEMON HANDS
This is ultimate power. Once acquired, Sartana’s hands are possessed with
the power to unleash the wrath of hell upon his rivals. When selected
(press ‘8’ to use), the primary attack lets loose a stream of lightning and the
secondary attack summons a horde of ghastly spirits capable of eliminating
large numbers of enemies or bringing down even the hardiest of
champions. Additionally, these spirits also transfer the target’s life force to
the summoner. This power requires a lot of concentration as well as
immense physical and mental fortitude. Therefore, Sartana cannot use this
power while armed with other weapons.Page | 18
ITEMS
There are various items that will aid you on your quest. Some items can be
used as needed while others will be activated the moment you pick them
up and will wear off after an elapsed amount of time.
LIFE & ARMOR
Life and armor are a must have. You'll need them if you want to survive.
BLOOD POOLS
Raises your life by 5 points, up to 100.
ENTRAILS
Raises your life by 15 points, up to 100. Entrails can usually
be found in areas scattered with dead bodies and gore.
BLOOD VILES
Raises your life by 10 points, up to 100.
HEART
Raises your life by 25 points, up to 100. Hearts are rich and
nourishing; they are a great find for when you are low on
life.
PROTECTION RUNE
Gives you 5 points of armor, up to 100. Cultists often drop
these.Page | 19
PROTECTION CHARM
Gives you 20 points of armor, up to 100.
BASIC ARMOR
Gives you 50 points of armor, up to 100.
SUPER ARMOR
Gives you 200 points of armor.
TREASURE
The Unholy Trinity's cult has amassed quite the assortment of stolen goods.
You may as well steal it back from them.
GOLD BAG
Adds 100 points to your score.
SILVER BULLION
Adds 250 points to your score.
GOLD BULLION
Adds 500 points to your score.Page | 20
TREASURE CHEST
Adds 1000 points to your score. Note: collecting 10 treasure
chests gives you additional bonuses.
POWER-UPS & ARTIFACTS
You'll notice a lot of trinkets and unusual items scattered throughout
Shadow Island. These items have special powers that will help you.
BLOODSTONE
Boosts your life by 100 points, up to 200 total.
IMPRISONED SOUL
Gives you 200 points of life, up to 300 total.
WARD
Gives you an additional ward. Wards revitalize you when
your life falls to 0, saving you from final death. Note: Once
you run out of wards and your life reaches 0, you die and
have to start the area you are on all over again, losing all your items and
weapons.
CRYSTAL BALL
Reveals secrets for current level when beast vision is
activated.Page | 21
DEMON SKULL
Fuels your Demon Eyes power.
BAPHOMET
Gives you the Demon Hands power.
PENTAGRAM
“Ammo” for your Demon Hands powers.
CLOAK OF PROTECTION
Regenerates armor and grants user with superhuman
resistance to damage, lasts for 120 seconds.
BERSERK MASK
Regenerates life, imbues your melee attacks with
supernatural power, and makes your machete temporarily
indestructible, lasts for 90 seconds.
RAGE ARTIFACT
Enhances both movement speed and attack speed, lasts for
45 seconds.
BEACON OF THE UNHOLY
Makes you invulnerable, lasts for 30 seconds.Page | 22
INVENTORY ITEMS
Inventory items are different from power-ups in the sense that you can
keep a certain amount of them to use whenever you want. You can select
inventory items by using the mousewheel or the '9' and '0' keys.
SILVER DAGGER
Silver Daggers are good for dispatching enemies quickly and
quietly from a distance.
POPPET
This unique item temporarily paralyzes your foes.
LIFE SERUM
Gradually raises your life by 50, up to 100.
GERRA’S ORB
Named after the Babylonian god of fire, this orb summons a
ball of fire straight from the depths of hell.
BOOK OF THE DEAD
Summons hordes of wraiths that destroy anything in your
path. Good for wiping out large numbers of enemies.Page | 23
OTHER ITEMS
TELEPORTATION ARTIFACT
These mystical orbs have the power to transport you to
distant areas with ease.
TOMES OF KNOWLEDGE
Tomes contain bits of helpful wisdom. Read them to gain
valuable insight.
DYBBUK BOX
Maxes out your inventory supply of poppets and silver
daggers.
KEYS
Enemies aren't the only things hindering your progress.
Apparatuses called locked doors can be a major source of
frustration. To conquer these foes, you need keys. There are
four different keys: Gold, Red, Blue, and Green.
SECRET ITEMS
Shadow Island is a place of mystery. That being said, some items (as well
as some weapons and some enemies) in the game are meant to be
discovered on your own. Exploration leads to great rewards!Page | 24
ENEMIES
The Island of the Shadow features a wide assortment of adversaries with
unique abilities. This section will tell you all you need to know about them.
CULTISTS
The Unholy Trinity's cult army is ruled by a strict chain of command
divided into three groups: Followers, the Low Order, and the High Order.
THE FOLLOWERS
General followers make up the bulk of the cult and consist mostly of young
boys and girls raised within the Shadow Cult community from the time of
birth.
MARTYRS
Martyrs are prepubescent children who have either been
possessed or subjugated to rigorous brainwashing. They are
often on the frontlines mindlessly sacrificing themselves for
their unholy masters. Though they are easy to take down, they are quick
moving and can easily overwhelm you in numbers.
ACOLYTE
Gifted martyrs that manage to survive well into their teen
years become acolytes. They are more disciplined and have
better control over the firearms given to them.
FANATIC
Only the hardiest of followers become fanatics. These
shotgun toting baddies are fast and deadly, and each of them
hopes to earn a position in the Low Order by blowing your
head clean off.Page | 25
THE LOW ORDER
The Low Order consists of cult members with a great deal of talent and/or
experience. They are often seen fighting alongside the followers they
command. Members of the Low Order are given better firearms which
makes them more difficult adversaries.
DEACON
Two fast-firing friends accompany these entry level Low
Order members and they won't hesitate to mow you down
with them.
ARCHDEACON
These silent assassins are not to be trifled with. They are
armed with three different firearms and they know how to
use them well. The fact that you won't hear them coming
makes them even more dangerous. Be very careful not to get too close to
them or else they will gladly introduce you to their buckshot-filled partner.
PRIEST
Once members of the Low Order make it to priesthood, they
are adorned with more elaborate garments and given a shiny
new companion named Winchester. Priests are lightly
armored and often keep to the back, preferring to pick their
targets off from behind friendly lines. This makes them tougher to take
down.
HIGH PRIEST
High priests are some of the most formidable foes you will
encounter. These fleet-footed bastards can either blast you
into oblivion with their high capacity revolvers or use their
scepters to summon forth a hammer from hell to hurl at you.Page | 26
THE HIGH ORDER
Only a select number of cult members are allowed to join the ranks of the
High Order. High Order leaders are often so old that they have an almost
corpse-like appearance and are often frail of limb. Nonetheless, they are
still very powerful. They have abandoned the use of firearms and prefer to
use dark sorcery as their main weapon. Rumor has it that the source of
their power comes from the blood of the living.
BISHOP
These keepers of the dark faith want nothing more than to
have your corpse for the main course at their next dinner gettogether. Avoid their 
barrage of fiery projectiles. Getting hit
by them will surely make their future dinner plans a reality.
ARCHBISHOP
If you thought the bishops were bad, these vile entities put
them to shame. They move quicker and can take more
damage than their bishop brethren. Also, their red lightning
projectiles are fast and sometimes hard to avoid. They also aren't afraid to
rip your face off if you get too close to them.
CARDINAL
Anyone who has lived long enough to become a Cardinal of
the High Order is both revered and greatly feared. Cardinals
possess the ability to summon swarms of bats to protect them
and they can also launch a ghastly ball of fire at you. As if that is not bad
enough, the magical robe they wear makes them resistant to most weapons
in your arsenal. These bastards also enjoy stealing your life items.Page | 27
THE ELITE GUARD
The Elite Guard was created for the singular purpose of protecting the
Unholy Trinity at all costs. They are a group of highly specialized soldiers
(think of them as like Special Ops). No one knows how they are chosen or
where they come from. All you need to know is that they are dangerous.
ROGUE
Armed with a Devil Mule's rifle, rogues hide, sit back, and
wait patiently for an opportunity to snipe you from a
distance. Tread carefully in forested areas or places where
there are a lot of nooks and crannies to hide in.
ENFORCER
These heavily armored brutes can take more punishment
than the average cultist. Not to mention, their silver-bullet
hurling companion packs quite the punch. It is no wonder
that one of the enforcer's main roles is keep the Shadow Cult's werewolf
pets in check. Keep in mind that some weapons are ineffective against
them as bullets will just ricochet off of their metal-encased bodies.
BARON
These peacemaker packin' gunslingers will put one bullet in
each of your eyes quicker than you can say your name. They
are speedy and fast to the draw, so you'll want to dispatch of
them quickly.
DARK HUNTER
Not much is known about these mysterious soldiers except
that they harbor a dark bestial secret, which few have lived
to see and report about.Page | 28
ANTI-PALADINS
Though they are slower than other elite guards, these dualshotgun wielding lords 
of the dark are much tougher to take
down. You will have to deal out a lot of abuse to kill them
and you will definitely want to stay out of their line of fire, especially at
close range.
THE UNDEAD
The undead hordes make up much of the Shadow Cult's frontline of
defense. Most of them do not pose too much of a threat, but they can be
quite a nuisance in large numbers.
ZOMBIE
Slow, clumsy, and stupid. These stiffs mostly just get in the
way. Just try not to get swarmed for they often attack in big
groups.
UNDEAD HOUND
These hounds go down easily, but their speed gives them a
slight edge over their bipedal piers. Their speed and fast bite
also make them more formidable foes in groups than
zombies.
SKELLY
Something carved this poor SOB's face out and turned it into
a toothed vagina that's going through one hell of a menstrual
cycle. These things launch acidic balls of blood at you from a
distance and have no qualms with administering an almighty haymaker
square in your face if you get too close.Page | 29
UNDEAD GUNMAN
Slow, easy to take down, but slightly smarter than other
zombies as they can open doors and operate a firearm (albeit
very crudely--these guys couldn't hit the broad side of a barn
if they were standing three feet in front of it).
UNDEAD BOUNTY HUNTER
Like the undead gunman, except more dangerous as their
preferred firearm, a semi-auto shotgun, doesn't require much
accuracy to hit you.
UNDEAD SHERIFF
These baddies are faster and slightly smarter than their other
gunslinger friends. The fact that they are also armed with a
repeater and fire with better accuracy doesn’t help matters.
UNDEAD HEADSMAN
Fast, deadly, and hard to take down. Be careful not to get
blocked in by them when they attack in groups. You might
want to have those poppets handy…
ASWANG
These floating legless entities are made from the dead bodies
of fallen bishops. They are on a constant quest to drain the
life force from anything with (sometimes without) a pulse.
Luckily, they go down relatively easy and they have to get close in order to
drain life. One well-placed shotgun blast makes short order of these flying
torsos.Page | 30
RED DEATH
The unholy trinity created these undead goliaths from the
bone, sinew, and tissue of innocent people (many of these
innocent people include children). These walking tanks
might be slow-moving, but they take quite a beating before going down.
Not to mention, their long bony talons pack quite the wallop (DON'T get
close to them). Even from a distance, you are not safe from these red
behemoths as they have been given the ability to summon spectral balls of
energy, which they launch at their foes from afar.
OTHER ENEMIES
WEREWOLF
These brainwashed monstrosities are prized pets of the
Shadow Cult. They are the fastest enemies you will
encounter and will usually attack in packs. Fighting them
toe-to-toe is downright suicidal. You also might want to have silver handy.
INFERNAL TURRENT
These stationary hell cubes were designed by Zagan to
pummel any hostile target with a flurry of fire. Destroy them
quickly before they destroy you. Hopefully you have the
Devil’s Mule as your companion by the time you encounter these
nuisances.
WRAITH
These fiery fiends are eager to see what you would look like
immersed in flames. Put them down before they render you
to dust, but know this… you can’t fight fire with fire.Page | 31
THE UNHOLY TRINITY
The leaders of the Shadow Cult are master practioners of the dark arts.
They each come armed with special powers and they will use those powers
to their fullest extent in order to annihilate you.
JILIAYA: THE WITCH
It has been said that Jiliaya was responsible for summoning
the wraiths from their infernal abodes below. If this is true,
then you can only imagine what powers she wields. There
are rumors that Jilaiya has four identical sisters.
DROGE: THE WARLOCK
The supreme commander of the High Order has such sights
to show you. Being both a master pistoleer and a master
deceptor, Droge will be one of your greatest challenges
ZAGAN: THE ANTIPOPE
Legend has it that Zagan is a reincarnation of Pope Benedict
IX, a cruel and dissolute 11th century Pope who has been
described as "a demon from hell in the disguise of a priest."
Considering both the catholic-style hierarchy of the Shadow Cult and
Zagan's title, the legend may not be such a far-fetched theory.Page | 32
HINTS & STRATEGIES
THE ART OF COMBAT
THE BASICS: The enemies you face will stop at nothing to hurl you back
into the grave whence you came, so you'll need to familiarize yourself with
your surroundings as well as each weapon in your arsenal (including
inventory items as they can be very useful for getting you out of sticky
situations). Hiding behind walls and knowing which weapon to use in any
given situation can save your unlife.
It is also important to know which weapon works best against certain
enemies. General cultists and zombies can be easily dispatched with pistol
type weapons, but won't be as effective against stronger enemies, such as
High Order cult members, elite guards, and bosses.
Also, be warned… certain enemies enjoy consuming your life items. If you
notice the screen flashing with a message that says “an enemy is
consuming life items”, someone (or something) that is not you is taking
your shit and reaping the benefits from it.
IMPORTANT NOTE: Some enemies are flat out immune to certain
weapons (werewolves, for instance, are immune to most weapons in your
arsenal, wraiths are immune to fire, etc).
MELEE COMBAT: When it comes to melee combat, sticking and moving is
the best strategy as your kick and machete attacks stun most lower end
enemies. Dispatching of dogs with your machete or a well-placed kick is a
good way of preserving ammo as these enemies go down easily. Avoid
using your fists unless it is absolutely necessary.Page | 33
DON'T WASTE AMMO: Using a weapon's secondary fire indiscriminately
can be fun, but also eats through your ammo very quickly. It is best to only
use a weapon's secondary fire in situations that call for it.
USE INVENTORY ITEMS WISELY: It's wise not to waste inventory items.
Use them only when certain situations call for them.
Silver Daggers – Use these for silently eliminating foes.
Poppets - Good for immobilizing groups of enemies or fast moving enemies
like executioners, werewolves, and cultists. Keep in mind: poppets are less
effective against certain enemies (most boss-type enemies, with the
exception of Droge, are either immune or highly resistant to them). Poppets
are most effective against zombies , werewolves, and most types of cultists.
Gerra’s Orbs - Use these for obliterating large clusters of lesser enemies or
taking down a particularly tough foe.
Book of the Dead - Save these for areas that are flooded with enemies. It'll
make your life easier. It is helpful to note that these books are usually
placed close to areas where they might be advantageous to use.
IMPORTANT NOTE: Books of the Dead do not carry on to the next level.
For example: let's say you collected two Books of the Dead on level 2; if you
don't use them on that level, you will lose them once you reach next level.Page | 
34
FINDING SECRETS
Some secrets are marked. If you notice an oddball item (like an out of place
candle) placed in front of a wall, there is a chance that it could be a secret.
Crystal Ball – Finding the crystal ball can save you on both time and trouble
when it comes to locating secrets. Keep in mind that the crystal ball only
reveals pushwall that do not require a switch to activate. Also, keep in
mind that there are numerous non-pushwall secrets in the game..
WHAT DOESN'T KILL YOU MAKES YOU STRONGER
Most enemies you kill leave behind trinkets, guns/ammo, armor, and
blood for you to loot. The more powerful the foe, the better the loot.
GREED PAYS OFF
Don't overlook collecting treasure, especially treasure chests. Collecting
treasure is a great way to boost your score. For every 100,000 points you
earn, your life jumps up to 300. Also, you are given bonuses for every 10
treasure chests you collect. A particularly special bonus awaits you if you
find all the treasure chests in the game.
TREASURE CHEST BONUS BREAK-DOWN:
10 Treasure Chests -- +10,000 points, +300 life
20 Treasure Chests -- +10,000 points, +400 life,+200 armor
30 Treasure Chests -- +10,000 points, +600 life,+300 armor
35 Treasure Chests – Secret CodePage | 35
SECRET LEVELS
There are 2 secret levels in the game. For those wanting the complete
playing experience for Beyond the Grave, it is recommended to find and
complete these levels. Note: You won’t be able to acquire all the treasure
chests without completing these levels. Also, one of these levels has a secret
item not mentioned in this manual.
VIEWING MAPS
If you want to view the level maps for Beyond the Grave (not in game), you
will have to download Havoc's Wolf3d Editor (just google it if you don't
have it already). ChaosEdit or MapEdit won't work since Beyond the Grave
uses a 128x128 map grid.
WANT MORE HINTS?
Are you stuck on a level? Are you having difficulties defeating a certain
boss? If so, feel free to e-mail me (see Contacting the Author section). Don't
ask me for cheats. There aren't any and I don't plan on releasing any.
Okay… I lied, there is one cheat, but you’ll have to figure it out yourself
(hint: collect all the treasure chests).Page | 36
CREDITS
TEAM
J. Nicholas Lewis(ThunderEnema)
Project Coordination
Story/Concept
Level Design
Programming
Sound & Music Editing
Gerolf
Graphics
Sound & Music Editing
Jesse Stevens
Promotional & Manual Artwork
Opening Title Screen/Credits Screen Artwork
BETA TESTERS
Cody Young
Timothy George Wells
Military
Sigma64
GerolfPage | 37
ORIGINAL GRAPHIC SOURCES
ID Software, Raven Software, Monolith Productions, Capstone Software,
Apogee Software/3D Realms, Bethesda Softworks, Lobotomy Software
ADDITIONAL GRAPHIC SOURCES
AReyeP, Majik Monkee, Madwolf, Reactor, Eriance, idGamer, Gothic,
ZygoInferior, Gali, DeVloek, MagicWazard, HorrorMovieGuy, Icytux,
Captain Toenail, Wraithchilde, David G, Realm667, ZDoom Forums
ORIGINAL SOUND SOURCES
Activision (VtM: Redemption), Monolith Productions, ID Software, Raven
Software, Lobotomy Software, Realm667.com
ADDITIONAL SOUNDS
Wolf Skevos-Jones (TotenkopfSDL), Various gun sound libraries
MIDI MUSIC
Sierra Games (Phantasmagoria), Monolith Productions (Blood), Capstone
Software (Witchaven), Apogee Software (ROTT), Jaleco (Astyanax),Konami
(Castlevania series)
OGG/MP3 MUSIC
"Leader" by Outbreak, "Iconoclast" by Icon, Fabio Frizzi (Zombie theme),
Walter Rizzati (House by the Cemetery theme), ZygoInferior ("Possest"
Doom mod), Activision (VtM: Bloodlines & Redemption), William Kidd
(Kolobos theme) ,Nintendo (Metroid)
ADDITIONAL MUSIC
RonWolf, Rodney A. Brubaker, Jan Van der Veken (“Dawn of the Dead”
Doom mod), freemidi.org ("Sear Me" and "Deep Red" midi),
caseyscaverns.com/4/halloween5.html (Mausoleum level & MetroidPage | 38
midi), castlevaniadungeon.net/Media/midi.html (castlevania midis),
various other random midi websites
ADDITIONAL LEVEL DESIGN
Ack, Gerolf,Richter Belmont
ADDITIONAL CODE
Tricob, Wolf Skevos-Jones, AlumiuN, Chris, Adam Biser, Codetech84,
MCS, Richter Belmont, Zombie_Plan, BrotherTank, WLHack
ADDITIONAL MANUAL ART
Avelina de Moray, assorted cover art from the spaghetti western Django:
Prepare a Coffin and the Dollars Trilogy with edits made by Gerolf.
EDITING UTILITIES
Havoc - Havoc's Wolf3d Editor
Chaos Software - ChaosEdit
Bloodshed Software - Dev-C++,
Simon Judd and Gez - Slade Doom Editor
Anvil Studio
FL Studio
Sound Forge Audio Studio 10.0
Microsoft PaintPage | 39
SPECIAL THANKS
Id Software - for creating Wolfenstein 3D, Doom and other great games,
and for releasing the Wolf3D source code to the public.
Raven Software - for making Shadow Caster, Heretic I/II, and Hexen I/II.
Monolith Productions - for making the greatest FPS of all time: Blood.
Ripper and Chaos Software - for creating the Wolf4SDL source port.
Realm667.com & zDoom forums - for providing an extensive supply of
sprite/texture resources to use for mods.
BrotherTank, Dean, and RonWolf - for running the Diehard Wolfers
Forums.
Gerolf - for going above and beyond to help me create this game.
WSJ - for the reloading code, and for releasing the Castle Totenkopf source
code which allowed me to implement enemy bullet tracing as well as
several other features in this mod.
AlumiuN - for his advanced sound code which made using higher quality
sound effects and music for mods possible.
Tricob - for helping me implement various coding features.
Jesse Stevens - for his awesome artwork.
You - for downloading and playing this game.
If there is anyone I forgot to credit, please don't sue me!Page | 40
CONTACTING THE AUTHOR
If you have questions or comments about this game, you can send me an email at one 
of the following e-mail address:
chowpow13 (at) aol.com
Zeus024 (at) live.com
If you liked this game, be sure to follow Beyond the Grave on facebook for
updates and news:
https://www.facebook.com/BTG666/