LXM Back Story. 
(Actually Also the Back story for NBX, WOX, and the main KSS series too). 


The Year is 1935
The NSDAP has stepped up it's suppression of esoteric orders and Masonic Fraternities(whom they had long distrusted) despite efforts to appease the Party. Your Order, The Order of the Magi of the Radiant Star a rather irregular and clandestine upper degree order has gone even further underground, in an effort to continue your rites under the protection of secrecy. ^P

 
The NSDAP has even begun suppressing orders which where popular with founding and influential Nazi Officials, perhaps in an effort to solidify power and prevent unofficial secretive influences over the regime.

On December 15th you and another member of the Magi Order met secretly with some members of the Thule Society, a meeting arranged by a member of several secret orders. The Thule Society members where expressed great discontent with their order being suppressed, one was a high ranking Officer of the SS. 
He agreed to provide information on how to remain operating undiscovered, in exchange for your order assassination 2 members of the Nazi Party who where instrumental in the efforts to suppress secret societies. 
 
A very dangerous plan, though promising, you presented the plan to the Magi High Council in a secret meeting at the Grand Lodge, the council said they would need some time to deliberate on such a risky but pivotal move.


Awaiting the councils decision, you went about your daily life,
Delivering packages and parcels to government offices, 
Naturally you would be one of the assassins if the plan is approved, as you regularly shake hands with Nazi Officials and make small talk with them as you go about your work.... 


You went to be early on X Mas Eve..
...and then suddenly you where rudely awakened
as you where ripped from bed and arrested by the Gestapo,
they beat you and through you in a cell, left alone for hours before a brief interrogation, 


As your are being thrown back into the cell you recognize a symbol on the insignia of one the SS men, the black sun. 
You remember, what one of the men from the Thule Society said, "they are recruiting some of us to a new SS division, even knighting some of us and some Gestapo, Waffen SS and Ahnenerbe members, but the rest of us they expect to just loose our association" The SS Officer Also said he was being recruited for this division, but sympathized with his brethren who where being left to the wayside.

This could be what they where talking about it....

As you sit in the dark contemplating a less painful death by your own hands, or using trying to make some just as suicidal escape....
Suddenly the door opens, and as you lunge at the lone SS man with the dagger [ that they never found that you sleep with holstered to your ankle under your pajamas] you recognize him..
You stop just short of his throat... he was one of your brothers in the Masonic Lodge before your initiation into the Magi Order. 

"Hugo that really is you..."
he whispers 
"My God where you going to kill me?"
"Otto, you where going to kill me"
"I saw your name on the papers, it says you are are an assassin" 
"Otto how did you get mixed up in this"
"Hugo listen we don't have time to talk, an SS Standard Fuhrer and his men are coming to take you to Berlin, they want to make an example of you, you must knock me out and escape" 
"Otto where will I go?"
"Aren't you part of that Magi Order? Can't they hide you"
"Well yes, but how the hell will I get out of here"
"Ah yes, new plan"..... "O yes, and before I forget, here, is the ring they took, is this one the Mars Rings from those Solomonic Demon Rites?" 
"Thank You brother, it is, and it is quite lethal" 
"Well take this too.."
Your hands you a pistol and your Mars Ring friend escorts you at gun point to the restroom, where he also hands you a grenade and wooden dowel. 
"Hugo, you must do it now, this is as much as I can do Brother".

You hit him with the dowel knocking him unconscious and drag him safely behind a reinforced wall and take a heavy coat and pants and boots hanging from a rack and on a shelf in the open closet.
"Hey, Otto whats taking this guy so long? tell him to hurry up!"
"Otto?" 
"No asshole I think I killed him, come see" 
"Dammit" 
You hear several foot steps approaching, you activate the grenade... your heart pounds as you hold it, as they reach the hall outside the restroom you lob the grenade through the door way, just in time
BBBBOOOOM! You crawl out the window, no one is guarding this area, Otto was right, it would have been nice for him to get you all the way out, but he would be executed for that. You make it all the way to a damaged portion of the fence before a search light spots you, you barely squeeze through the fence before they open fire, barely missing you as you find an Ice Cave and run inside....


This is where Episode One NBX Begins, Then Follows WOX, Then Finally LXM. 

