INTRODUCTION:

"Operation: Mutant Strike 3" Prologue/Story

**Warning! The OMS3 story is pretty long! If you choose to skip the story (not suggested), 
skip down to the section entitled "Mission Info". The mod makes more sense if you 
read the story, and have completed the previous Mutant Strike mods (helpful, but 
not required).**


------------------------
O.S.S. AGENT PROFILE

Name: Jill Hunter
Gender: Female
Age: 27
Height: 5'9"
Weight: 130lbs

Personal History: Born in Paris, France under her birth name, Alaina Laurent, she 
was orphaned at an early age when both her parents were killed in an industrial accident. 
Afterward, she went to live with her aunt and cousin, Aristide, a member of the French 
Resistence, who would teach her many of the skills she learned prior to becoming 
an OSS agent. By the time the Nazis invaded Paris, she was a full member of the resistence, 
and fought to repel the invasion. She was critically injurerd when she was shot in 
the chest, just above the heart, and Aristide managed to secure her transport out 
of Paris and to the United States, although it cost him his life. Eager to continue 
the war effort against the Nazis, upon recovery, Alaina accepted an invitation to 
join the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) as an agent, and took the name Jill Hunter. 
One of the youngest members of the OSS at the time, Jill showed great promise, completing 
a number of difficult stealth operations with minimal outside support.

Current Status: DECEASED

-------------------------

...at least, that was the official story.

Jill stood in front of the mirror, naked, assessing the damage the past several years 
had taken on her. An "armored" stealth suit was no match for Nazi bullets or flesh 
ripping claws of some of the nightmares she had encountered in her last several missions. 
True, though, it had probably saved her from a much worse fate than temporary physical 
injury. Jill brought her hand up, just above her heart, and gently fingered an almost 
invisible circular scar. Here was the wound that had changed her life...that had 
caused Aristide to give his life to bring her to America, where she could have a 
second chance at life. Yes, the scar was almost gone, but of all the injuries she 
had received, this one alone she did not want to fade. As long as it remained, it 
served as a reminder of the man who had truly given everything for her.

Jill looked at her face in the mirror, and frowned. The last several years had not 
been particularly kind to her, yet kinder than she deserved, given the circumstances. 
Her once beautiful black hair was now an unspectacular shade of brown, the result 
of her attempt at changing her appearance to hide from the OSS. Her frown brought 
small lines to the corners of her eyes that she was certain a normal woman her age 
would have been able to keep at bay. But she was not normal, in most respects, she 
never had been.

Jill pulled some clothes from her duffle bag sitting on the bed of the room she was 
staying in. She'd seen enough of her past injuries for one day. Besides, the real 
injuries were those that could not be seen, the ones resulting from ultimate betrayal. 
Her own organization had tried to kill her, in a failed attempt to gain the power 
of biological weapons. Assistant Chief, Donald Dickerson. True, Dickerson had been 
acting of his own accord, but the betrayal stung, just the same. While he had respected 
her talents, his disdain for "immigrants" was a poorly kept secret, and the sadistic 
pleasure with which he had revealed his intention to have her eliminated during her 
last mission would continue to haunt her every bit as much as her encounter with 
the unnamed horror she had destroyed in order to escape that nightmare. Dickerson's 
death did not ease the pain of the betrayal, nor would it ever stop the nightmares.


The mission, however, had been a necessity. Regenschrim Corporation had massively 
increased it's development of "death mutants", and needed to be stopped. Even more 
importantly, the life of a fellow agent had hung in the balance, the life of the 
man named BJ Blazkowicz. It was he who had helped prevent the unsanctioned nuclear 
strike ordered by Dickerson on the Alaskan Regenschirm facility, a move that had 
saved both BJ and Jill's lives. She had forced herself to disappear from the site 
of the operation before the US government could come assess the situation, even though 
she was confident she would be found innocent of anything but completing her required 
mission. She had left BJ to handle the aftermath, and handle it he did. He had proven 
to be a trustyworthy ally, perhaps even a friend, in a world that, to Jill, had begun 
to feel anything but friendly.

It was a risk to come out of hiding in the weeks immediately following her mission 
to rescue BJ, even though she knew the OSS had officially declared her dead (knowing 
full well she was not). She had to thank him for what he had done. She secretly tracked 
his movements immediately after the Alaskan incident, learned of his intention to 
vacation in England, and snuck into his hotel room while he was away at a pub so 
she could meet with him without being seen. Yes, it was a risk, but some risks were 
worth taking.

BJ hadn't seemed surprised to see her. Happy to see she was alive and well, but not 
surprised. Despite the effort she had gone to to follow him and arrange the meeting, 
Jill had very little to say, and for the most part, her gratitude was simply expressed 
with a rib crushing hug and a brief peck on the lips. She left with a promise to 
see him once more before she went back to hiding in earnest, a promise she fully 
intended to make good on. She was drawn to him as the one and only person she felt 
she could truly trust, and beyond that, there was something even greater than that 
that she couldn't put her finger on. Emotional attachment was something she'd had 
very little stomach for since as far back as her parents' death, and emotional interpretation 
was not her strong suit.

Jill reached into her duffle bag and pulled out a worn piece of newsprint, the very 
same BJ had given her the last day she saw him before she left England. His face 
had been grim that day, like a man delivering a death sentence, and he'd spoken no 
words when he handed her the news clipping. It had been a headline in the international 
section of a local English paper that day, and while it no doubt sounded ridiculous 
to most, the words she read turned her blood to ice: "REAL FRANKENSTEIN MONSTER FOUND 
DEAD ON AUSTRIAN COUNTRYSIDE". It was accompanied by no photograph, but the description 
of the "monster" was all too familiar: pale, white skin, red eyes, green jumpsuit, 
and most peculiar of all (to the author of the article, at least), a hand grafted 
to it's chest. The details of where the creature had been found were vague but clear 
enough, as was what Jill needed to do next. She had left BJ's hotel room that day 
without another word...

***********************

There were very few likely locations for Regenschirm to base their operations out 
of in the region of Austria where the creature had been found. The abandoned Castle 
Brunwald was the most obvious choice, and it was a simple matter for Jill to discover 
the tract of land upon which the castle stood had recently been purchased by a wealthy 
German scholar by the name of Milton Johann. The purchase had been made with cash, 
and all indications were that Dr. Johann wished for the purchase to remain private 
knowledge. The past two nights Jill had spent secretly surveying the security around 
castle Brunwald had further attested to Dr. Johann's desire for privacy, as the castle 
appeared to be securely locked, with recently added reinforced metal doors, and armed 
guards were present at all times. None of this deterred Jill in any way, but she 
had to be sure of what she was doing before she made her move.

The guard barely had time to utter a vulgar explicative in his native German tongue 
between the time Jill kicked his legs out from behind him and placed her hand over 
his mouth. In a flash, her knife was at his throat, and she spoke in a firm and deadly 
tone.

"Now, now, there are ladies present. Now, tell me, what's going on in there?"

The guard hesitated long enough that Jill pressed the knife more firmly to his throat.


"I...I don't know! I am only allowed inside the upper levels! We are instructed to 
kill all trespassers but told nothing more!" The man's eyes darted toward his rifle, 
lying a few feet away where he had dropped it when Jill attacked him. It may as well 
have been miles away.

"Is this where the monster that was discovered escaped from?" Jill's tone left no 
doubt that she was in no mood for nonsene.

"No...I mean, I don't know! We haven't..."

In a moment, the man was no longer in Jill's grasp, but instead, lying flat on his 
back, with the muzzle of Jill's rifle aimed squarely at his groin, hovering mere 
inches away. The change of position seemed to have a remarkable loosening effect 
on his tongue.

"Good god! Yes, yes! This is where the creature came from, but I know nothing else, 
I swear!"

Jill decided to take his word for it. In a flash, her rifle raised up, her boot connected 
with the man's groin, and before he finished letting out a yelp of pain, he was knocked 
unconscious by the butt of her rifle. He'd wake up with one hell of a headache, but 
it was a far better fate than what awaited the rest of the Regenschirm bastards holed 
up in the castle. Jill drug the man into some nearby bushes, took his ammunition, 
and quickly hid in the shadows as she heard another guard approach. He wasn't looking 
for her, though, he was headed directly for the front entrance. He unlocked the door 
and slipped inside, oblivious to the black clad shape that followed him in from the 
night before the door closed again on it's own.

And so it began once again...

======================================================================



MISSION INFO:

As with the manuals for the other OMS mods, this one will be very brief.  You will 
have to discover pretty much everything about the game yourself, and from the moment 
you begin, you're on your own for ten whole levels.  At the end of certain levels, 
however, you will be rewarded with a bit of the story as it progresses, and, if you 
encountered any new enemies in the previous levels, you will receive information 
about these enemies as well.


CHANGES:

There are a few noticeable changes in OMS2, but for the most part, things have been 
kept as true to the original Wolfenstein formula as possible.  As was the goal with 
"Operation: Lezterschutz", and OMS1 and OMS2, OMS3 is meant to feel like a legitimate 
progression of the Wolfenstein story.  Here are the changes in the game:

- the rifle (pistol replacement) is almost twice as strong as the pistol is in the 
original Wolfenstein, making it a useful weapon for dealing with individual enemies, 
even when you have plenty of ammo.  This was meant to be the case in OMS1 also, but 
the code wasn't quite in the right place.  Consider the rifle to always be an alternative 
to the machine gun, especially when facing individual tougher enemies (like scientists 
in the beginning).

- ammo limit has been set to a max of 250 bullets instead of 99.  This is useful, 
since you will face a lot of tough enemies, and won't always have time to run around 
picking up bullets after you start fighting.  Be conservative, though...some weapons 
can still go through 250 rounds pretty quickly.

- some of the boss behavior etc has been changed.  The result is that there are several 
"mini boss" type enemies you may encounter throughout the game, who will drop various 
items.  The ghosts have been made stationary, and now serve another purpose in the 
game...

- levels are now seamless.  There are only ten of them, but you don't have to  pick 
which episode you want to play.  This is good, since there are no levels after the 
first ten...trust me.  Oh...and there is no secret level...sorry, but secrets don't 
make friends... :)

- shading has been added to the game to create a greater sense of atmosphere.  This 
was considered for the first game, but never actually implemented.  Be warned that 
there is a slight pause at the start of shaded levels as the shading table loads, 
but this is normal.  The first couple levels won't do this, because they are not 
shaded.

- there are some other changes, but they are classified in nature.  Sorry, but to 
reveal much more about them would be to spoil some surprises, and where's the fun 
in that?


GENERAL TIPS:

I'm not going to cover Wolfenstein basics.  If you've never played the original, 
you really ought to go play it first...at very least, the shareware version.  For 
those of you who have played the originals, though, you already know the basics, 
so this will just cover stuff that is a little different in OMS3.  If you've played 
OMS1 or OMS2 already, you can probably skip this section. Here goes...

- Keep your eyes open for enemies at all times.  You might be staring right at a 
potential threat and not know it.  You'll see what I mean after the first few minutes 
of the game (if you played the previous OMS games, you probably already know a little 
what I'm talking about).

- Keys are rarely found just lying around. They will almost always be in the care 
of an enemy you must defeat, so don't run from battles...even the tough ones...nothing 
would suck more than to have an enemy with a key you really need wander off where 
you can't find them because you ran away from a fight (certain types of enemies that 
drop other things will never by carrying keys).

- There are a few different kinds of harmful objects that should be obvious to you. 
 If you are having trouble passing them without getting hurt, try facing away from 
them as you pass by.  This will reduce the chance that you get injured, or at very 
least, reduce the damage you take.

- Expect the unexpected.  That's what this game is about...keeping things a surprise 
until you come across them.  You may have seen some of the enemies in other games 
before, but until you come across them, there's always the fear and the excitement 
of the unknown.  Plus, there's some stuff you've probably never had to fight before 
to look forward to.

- Don't forget your knife.  It's not a silenced weapon in this game, but in a pinch, 
it can be used to kill most of the weaker enemies fairly easily, including mutants. 
 Be warned, though, that this only works on the mutants that lie around until they 
see you.  The other kind will finish you off quickly in close quarters.

- There are a LOT of story screens appearing between levels, and while reading them 
will probably not make gameplay any less difficult, the story can definitely enhance 
the overall experience. The OMS "world" is very rich in story, and OMS3 is meant 
to conclude that story (if you feel slightly lost while reading the story segments 
of OMS3, it may help to play the previous OMS mods to get up to speed).

- Keep trying.  This mod is difficult, but by no means impossible.  There is always 
a way to overcome every obstacle.  If direct confrontation isn't working for you, 
try something else.  You can do it...it's all worth it to reach the final confrontation... 
:)


KREDITS:

HUGE thanks go out to everyone who helped with this project.  Even if you helped 
indirectly, your contributions are appreciated greatly!  Thanks to:

 - Adam Biser - for the original DOS code changes and for creating the tools used 
to design this mod (at least on my end), such as WDC, RecolorBMP and Spritemaker!


- Andy Nonymous - for creating the SDL EXE for the game, when I didn't even know 
what SDL was yet. He's also done conversions of several of my other mods to SDL, 
and I'd like to thank him for that as well!

- WSJ - because I borrowed the following graphics with either minor or no modifications: 
 rifle and rifle guard. Your sprite sets are amazing!

- My map team, Soldat 555, Dean, Thomas and Ronwolf1705 (and myself of course). Without 
maps, there would be no mod, thanks for all your hard work! (individual credits listed 
below).

- Brian Lowe - For hosting this mod on the Dome!  Your contribution to the Wolf community 
is invaluable!

- Majik Monkee - for the story idea, most of the graphics changes, and sound and 
music selection. Also for doing the title screen and the VGAGRAPH artwork.

- the original Wolfenstein crew (ID Software) for making the original Wolfenstein, 
releasing the source code, and for the graphics from the original game I kept and 
either changed very little or not at all.

- Anyone else responsible for content appearing in this mod, who may have been forgotten 
or overlooked. I promise it wasn't intentional!


LEVEL/DESIGNER/MUSIC
--------------------
"Castle Crasher"/ Majik Monkee/ Metal Gear (1987)
"Going Down"/ Soldat 555/ Metal Gear (1987)
"The Dead Zone"/ Soldat 555/ Ninja Gaiden (1988)
"One By One"/ Ronwolf1705/ Blaster Master (1988)
"Tunnel Vision"/ Ronwolf1705/ Adam Biser (????)
"Mutant Office"/ Ronwolf1705/ Chrono Trigger (1995)
"Join the Corpse"/ Dean/ Final Fantasy Tactics (1998)
"Getting Closer"/ Thomas/ Rygar (1987)
"Nostalgia"/ Ronwolf1705/ Rygar (1987)
"Final Countdown"/ Ronwolf1705/ Castlevania II (1988)

Title Screen/ Ninja Gaiden III (1991)


"Wow!  That's a lot of credits for a mod with only ten levels in it!"  :)


That's all, folks!  Enough reading!  Go play!  If you like this game, and want to 
Majik an email, the address is: matthewmdmerrill (at) yahoo.com.  Thanks for playing!


- Majik Monkee-