Thank you for downloading my 4th ( or 5th Wolfenstein mod if you count my PD Wolf 
level set ), this mod takes place after my last mod The Cold War ( all will be revieled 
in the storyline shortly ). Now this mod uses Ling yan li's ( AK Lingyan203 ) Schabb's 
3000 EXE and source code from the revised version, I decided to use Lingyan's Schabb's 
3000 because A to take advantage of the advanced coding and B code editing isn't 
really my forte with the exception of being able to do basic stuff like change the 
colour of the ceiling of course! but Schabb's 3000 uses alot of Paal Olstad's ( AK 
Poet ) Source code changes from his Wolfenstein mods like The Tower and also being 
able to have more than 90 wall textures and a huge selection of sprites, I thought 
that would be cool to be able to make the Wolfenstein mod of my dreams. In a similar 
way that Gary Ragland's Wolfenstein mod Schabb's 2000 inspired Lingyan to make Schabb's 
3000 Quest for the unknown was inspired by Barry Christian's Wolfenstein mod Armageddon 
one of my favourite Wolfenstein mods of all time. Even with the advanced Source code 
changes like Schabb's 3000 Quest for the unknown still retains the original Wolfenstein 
feel and style which is what I'm aiming for, I'm hoping this mod will still retain 
the original Wolfenstein feel and style more than my previous mods did, it should 
also have better levels.  If this goes well I might use the Schabb's 3000 EXE for 
all my future Wolfenstein and Spear of destiny mods.

Storyline
1945 ( 2nd time round )
Not long after you battled Dr Schabb's and got blown out of the exploding facility 
you BJ  lie in hospital in a ward recalling both events of 1945, you soon feel you 
have recuperated and feel ready and curious to get to the bottom of this and find 
out what's happened once and for all. Immedietly you discharge yourself from the 
hospital and get back to work to the Allies office and ask how to go about tracking 
this thing down known as The unknown, " well we don't know for sure but we believe 
there might be a fortress located somewhere in the mountains on the Border of Germany, 
we have to get our facts straight before we proceed your mission. Our gut instinct 
tells us that there are still Nazi's fighting to keep The Third Riech alive, the 
war is far from over, heres what we will do, we will locate this fortress and when 
we find it we will send in some spies as Nazi officer's, Guards and SSs in disguise". 
So as if there was a spot of luck the Allies find a fortress located in the mountains 
on the Border of Germany, they send in some spies disguised as Nazi's and sure enough 
the place is infested! Well BJ today is your lucky day! we must leave you and you 
have to go the mission alone, when we leave you must enter the castle via a secret 
entrance at the bottom of the mountains, if you fail this mission Hitler will get 
his wish and be ressurected without a duobt, plus Schabb's mutants and poison war 
will spell Doomsday and the whole world could be wiped out!  good bye and good luck! 
and try to come back alive and in one piece! 

The Quest for the unknown features
60 new levels done to the highest standard I could achieve.
Lingyan's Schabb's 3000 EXE and Schabb's 3000 source code from the revised version.

Ceiling colours changed to match the wall textures mostly used in the level.
Multiple floor colours, some levels have a different floor colour to others.
Changed music order.
New music imported, yes the usual trademarks epic music very much like my previous 
Wolfenstein mods. It still retains the original Wolfenstein feel.

Known bugs
On a higher difficulty level the game may crash if you use the rocket launcher or 
if any enimies with rocket launchers fire their weapon. This is due to the nature 
of how the EXE was modified, Lingyan did his very best to iron out any bugs that 
cause the game to crash but it's because this EXE has so many modifications implemented 
it could be due to memory.



Level names
In Quest for the unknown, your mission takes place in an old fortress located in 
the mountains on the Border of Germany, the castle is split into several different 
units a bit like the strongholds in your previous missions.
Level 1 The Entrance
It's night time and you have found a secret entrance into another Nazi stronghold, 
the only way in is via a secret entrance in the lower part of the mountains on the 
Border of Germany. You have to climb down a narrow burrow and crawl through some 
vines.

Levels 2 - 9 Bottom castle
This unit is the lower floors in this castle still in the lower part of the mountain 
so expect it to be rocky at times especially level 2 which consists mostly of brown 
rock which is part of the mountain. There may also be mutants at times and some areas 
infested with mutants, they like to hide especially in the cavern like areas which 
could be their habitat.

Level 10 Boss 1
Here you fight your first boss an Ubermutant, you have seen quite a few of these 
creatures, they may look big but they go down easily.
Levels 11 - 13 Tunnels
You now have to go through a series of tunnels that connect to the rest of the fortress.


Levels 14 - 16 Pipelines
Were going down a bit deeper into the pipeline that connects the warterworks to the 
entire castle. You must penetrate the pipelines to proceed but beware there may be 
giant spiders lurking down there!

Levels 17 - 19 Underground
You are now below the base of the mountain, the whole place is covered in thick green 
slime everywhere. Lost of mutants live down there, it's another mutant habitat but 
level 19 is still used a a Secret Nazi base.

Level 20 Boss 2
Still underground you fight another Ubermutant, this is too easy!

Levels 21 - 25 Bio labs
You find your way back to the base of the mountain and end up in a series of Bio 
labs, your are now in the nuclear powerplant that drives electricity to the entire 
castle. There is alot of radio active waste and nuclear drums around, this place 
might have also been used as one of Schabb's laboratories. 

Levels 26 - 29 Dungeons
Just below the base of the mountains lies a secret dungeon used to take prisoners 
and store human waste ( not toilet waste body parts ) this place might remind you 
of episode 1 of Wolfenstein 3D and looks most similar to the original Wolfenstein 
levels. The wholoe place is littered with bones, blood, you name it the entire floor 
is covered, there is also alot of prison cells.

Level 30 The tunnel
After your escape from the vile dungeons to proceed you must travel through a very 
long and winding series of tunnels to get to the next part of the Castle located 
in Hamberg. It's a very long journey and you will face Tranz Gross guarding one of 
the keys you need to escape.















Credits 
First off I would like to thank Id Software for Wolfenstein 3D, Spear of destiny 
and the Wolfenstein source code, without them you wouldn't be playing this mod right 
now!
Form Gen Corp for the 2 Spear addons Return to Danger and Ultimate challange.
Ling yan li ( AK Lingyan203 ) for Schabb's 3000 which comes with a taloured MapEdit 
as part of the package ( makes mapping much easier ) and for releasing the Schabb's 
3000 Source code, it's because of that this mod is what it is, thank you so much, 
I could never have achieved some of the major modifications like 90+ wall textures, 
Paal Olstad's ( AK Poet ) tutorials like adding a rocket launcher, poison puddles. 

Also the Wolfenstein community for additional Source code tutorials I might have 
implemented.

All content from the vswap graphics is from a variaty of different sources ( most 
of which was already included in Schabb's 3000 ) all credit is given to rightfull 
owners I do not claim anything that doesn't belong to me. I also did several recoloured 
variations of certain wall textures from Wolfenstein and Spear of destiny.
The new inported music is from a variaty of sources including a few songs from Rise 
of the triad, all credit goes to rightfull owners and composers. 

Hopefully this won't be my last Wolfenstein mod, stay tuned for future Wolfenstein 
mods.

And is you liked Quest for the unknown you may want to try my previous Wolfenstein 
and Spear mods
1945 End of the Third Riech My very first Wolfenstein mod which is what started it 
all off. It's 1945 and your mission is to fight Hitler, locate Dr Schabb's Secret 
Bunker and destroy The Third Riech
The Spear My 2nd Wolfenstein mod, story takes place before End of the Third Riech. 
Find the Spear at the top of Castle Numenberg and this will be your first step to 
stopping Hitler.
The Cold War My third Wolfenstein mod, in 1946 the surviving Nazi's were granted 
access to a Time machine. It's 1945 once again but the cource of future events has 
been changed.
PD Wolf This doesn't really count as a Wolfenstein mod and has absolutly nothing 
to do with the storyline to this mod. This is a level set for Wolfenstein 3D that 
was done in connection with Wolfenstein's 20th anniversary, the emphasis is levels 
plus there are some new wall textures included and basic EXE changes but the original 
Wolfenstein feel and theme is still intact.
I also have a new YouTube channel where I do video game commentaries mainly for Wolfenstein 
addons but I also have a complete playthrough of Lingyan's Rise of the triad level 
pack TNT.
Heres the link to my YouTube channel <https://www.youtube.com/user/PDGamer2012?feature=guide>


 

 










