         

                                The New Adventures of B. J. Blazkowicz


      You are milling about at a swank party in Berlin, having infiltrated one of 
Hitler's most elite security batallions. Suddenly the floor
comes at you and you hit hard...
         You have awakened in a small room with a cot and a stove. The nazi banners 
adorning the door tell you you're not at the party! You bang on the heavy metal door 
and it slides open , the guard stepping inside to quiet the noise. You catch him 
off-guard and cover his mouth as you choke the life out of his miserable body. Ahh..good, 
noone heard the muffled scream. You take his pistol and slip out the door into a 
huge hallway. "Great", you say to yourself. "Another filthy castle". You must escape...so 
begins your journey....

     You know the story too well.Wolf3d and Spear have been guests to almost every 
concievable Nazi plot. There have been many excellent storylines and sets for them: 
Project Totengraeber (B.J. Rowan), Assasinate Hitler(Gary Ragland), 
On the Trail of Schabbs(Ken Obrien) Armmegeddon(Barry Christian), Tradgedy at Istanbul(john 
Bucksnort) and the list goes on. This set is again about B.J's escape, but with new 
levels, A mix of graphics from Wolf and Spear, new sounds, and a few source code 
changes. I have tried real hard to keep the atmosphere of the original  game as it 
adds greatly to the gameplay. This is the first set  that I have done totally on 
my own without my grandad's help. I hope you enjoy it.
The storyline is from the original game, but you will find a few extras and a lot 
of puzzles to solve as well. This set is totally beatable on DEATH INCARNATE without 
cheating, but if you must cheat, the "MLI" thing still works...LOL
Anyway, have fun, and enjoy the 15 levels of this set. Regards, Bobby Bucksnort

If you have questions or comments.....Email me : john_bucksnort@yahoo.com

A very special thanks go to Mr. Harry Mass Sr. and to Brian Lowe for their assistance.




                                                              


