Note from the writer- This story is a fictional account of Revelation. The book of 
Revelation in the Bible is real. For God so loved the world, that he gave his only 
Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life (John 3:16 
ESV).

Doomsday

In the Twinkling of an Eye

            In the twinkling of an eye, Christians were raptured. CIA agent John 
Matthews and President Ruth Moses did not get raptured because they did not believe 
in Jesus before the rapture. Immediately after the rapture, they were saved. “Jesus, 
I am a sinner. I believe that you died on the cross to save us from our sins and 
that God rose you from the dead. I want you to come into my life.” said John and 
Ruth both at different places.

           In the twinkling of an eye, Christians were raptured. CIA agent John Matthews 
and President Ruth Moses did not get raptured because they did not believe in Jesus 
before the rapture. Immediately after the rapture, they were saved. “Jesus, I am 
a sinner. I believe that you died on the cross to save us from our sins and that 
God rose you from the dead. I want you to come into my life.” said John and Ruth 
both at different places.

            President Ruth Moses had a meeting with Lucien Judas. Lucien was the 
leader of Rome. John overheard Lucien talking to Cain Sodom outside the meeting room. 
Cain was the second in command of Rome. “I hate all of the Presidents of the United 
States! I I hate George H W Bush! I hate George W Bush! I hate Bill Clinton! I hate 
Obama! I hate President Ruth Moses!” said Lucien angrily. “I agree with you sir!” 
said Sodom also angry. Lucien and Sodom walked into the meeting room. “A peace treaty 
with Israel is going to be signed today. All countries will be asked to surrender 
their weapons in the name of peace.” said Lucien. Lucien, Cain, and all of the countries 
signed the peace treaty. “Is the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada interested 
in surrendering their weapons for peace?” said Lucien. “The United States, the United 
Kingdom, and Canada are not interested in giving up their weapons. We need these 
weapons in case there is a war.” said President Ruth Moses. “Is any of the other 
countries interested in surrendering their weapons for peace?” said Lucien. The other 
countries surrendered their weapons and gave them to Lucien. "Peace has just begun. 
The world has been divided up into ten kingdoms. The One World Legion is the name 
for the one world government." said Lucien Judas to the ten leaders.

            Later that afternoon, John and Ruth talked at the White House. “Lucien 
Judas is the Antichrist and Cain Sodom is the false prophet. Before the meeting, 
Lucien was telling Cain that he hated all of the United States Presidents including 
you.” said John. “The signing of the peace treaty with Israel marks the beginning 
of the seven year tribulation.” said Ruth.

            Later at midnight, John went to the CIA Headquarters in Virginia. A man 
approached John. “Hello John Matthews. My name is Joseph Washington. I am the new 
director of the CIA. The previous CIA director was raptured and is now in Heaven 
with Jesus.” John and Joseph shook hands. “It is nice to meet you Joseph. What is 
my mission briefing?” Joseph started a video. John and Joseph watched the video. 
Joseph spoke when the video was finished. “Intel has uncovered a terrorist plan to 
wipe out America, the United Kingdom, and Canada. The terrorist behind this plan 
is Goliath Gomorrah. The main terrorists that he is working for are Lucien Judas. 
Goliath Gomorrah already has the mark of the beast. You are going to take a plane 
to Iran. Goliath will attempt to bring nuclear weapons to the United Kingdom, Canada, 
and the United States and detonate them. Gomorrah must be eliminated. Our computer 
specialist, Sarah Wayne, will help you gain entry into the building where Gomorrah 
is. May Jesus guide you John.” John got in a plane and flew to Iran.

            At 10:00 PM the next day, John arrived in Iran. John noticed that the 
building had silent alarms. John talked to Sarah over radio. “Sarah, can you disable 
the alarms so I can get into the building without being detected?” “I can John. Hold 
on.” Sarah typed on the computer. “I got the alarms disabled. You are either going 
to have to kill a guard and take his key or pray for Jesus to intervene.” John prayed 
for Jesus to intervene. The key fell off the guard and on the ground. The guard walked 
to another area. “Praise Jesus. The prayer was answered.” said John. John took the 
key and unlocked the entrance to the building. John was shocked at what he saw. He 
saw Nazi Swastikas and Hitler pictures. Neo Nazis were working for Lucien Judas. 
As John was racing to find Goliath, terrorists approached John and said something 
in German. They attempted to kill him. John defending himself, shot back. The terrorists 
died. John had to use a different key to gain access to each floor exit. Each key 
was hidden somewhere on each floor. John fought terrorists and found each key. He 
eventually came to the top floor of the building. “Goliath is on this floor John.” 
said Sarah. John opened the door. The nuclear weapons were there. Goliath was a giant 
with two chain guns. Goliath said something in German. Gomorrah shot at John with 
his two chain guns. John shot at Goliath with his chain gun. John eventually killed 
Gomorrah. John took the nuclear weapons and put them on the plane. John flew back 
to the CIA Headquarters in Virginia.

            The next day in the evening, John arrived back in Virginia for debriefing. 
“You did an excellent job finding those nuclear weapons John. I am shocked that Lucien 
Judas has Neo Nazis working for him.” said Joseph Washington. “The Neo Nazis are 
Lucien Judas’s secret police. All of the Nazis had the mark of the beast.” said John. 
"The video recording that we recieved from Intel has been deleted. Someone inside 
the CIA working for Lucien Judas deleted it." A man approached John and Joseph pointing 
a gun at them. "Leon, you were the one that deleted the video recording."  said Joseph 
Washington. "I deleted the video recording. I am going to kill both of you!" said 
Leon. "Security!" shouted John and Joseph together. Leon fired a shot at John and 
Joseph. John and Joseph dodged the shot. Two security guards arrived. Leon shot and 
killed one of the security guards. John and Joseph jumped Leon. John grapped Leon's 
gun. The security guard arrested Leon. 

            The next morning, John visited President Ruth Moses at the White House. 
“You did an excellent job finding those nuclear weapons. I am thankful to Jesus that 
you and Joseph Washington survived that deadly encounter with Leon at CIA Headquarters. 
The security guard that was killed was a Christian. Unfortunately, we are dealing 
with Nazis again. World War III is here. Jesus wins in the end though.” said Ruth 
Moses. “Jesus does win. How are you dealing with the disappearance of your family?” 
said John. “I miss them. How are you dealing with the disappearance of your family?” 
said Ruth. “I miss them also.” said John.

            Later that evening, John returned to his family home. He looked at pictures 
of his son, Daniel Matthews and of his wife, Esther Matthews. “I know they are safe 
in Heaven with you Jesus. I miss them so much though.” said John tearfully.

Apollyon

            After the peace treaty signing with Israel, Lucien Judas and Cain Sodom 
had a meeting with Goliath Gomorrah. The time was 11:45 PM. "You must destroy the 
United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States. You will find the nuclear weapons 
in a building in Iran." said Lucien. "This map will help you find the building." 
said Cain. Cain gave the map to Goliath. "I will not fail you Emperor Judas." said 
Goliath. Goliath Gomorrah left.

            An intelligence agent filmed the meeting with Lucien Judas, Cain Sodom, 
and Goliath Gomorrah and sent it to the CIA Headquarters in Virginia. Goliath captured 
the intelligence agent and brought him before Lucien and Cain. "This man recorded 
the entire meeting. He exposed us to the CIA." said Goliath. "Kill him Goliath!" 
said Lucien Judas. "Help me Jesus!" said the intelligence agent. Goliath Gomorrah 
took out two chain guns and killed the intelligence agent. Goliath left. Lucien called 
Leon on his phone. "Hello Leon. I want you to delete the recent video of me that 
was sent to the CIA."

          Later, Lucien Judas and Cain Sodom received news that Goliath Gomorrah 
had been killed by CIA agent John Matthews. Lucien's phone rang. Lucien picked up 
the phone. "Hello Leon." "Hello Lucien. I deleted the video of you. Goliath Gomorrah 
was killed by CIA agent John Matthews. John Matthews is being debriefed now by Joseph 
Washington. What do you want me to do?" "I want you to kill John Matthews and Joseph 
Washington." "I will do it Emperor Judas."

          Later, Lucien Judas and Cain Sodom received news that Leon had been arrested. 
Lucien Judas supernaturally unlocked Leon's prison cell. A few hours later, the doorbell 
rang. Lucien Judas opened the door. It was Leon. "What can I do to thank you for 
setting me free?" said Leon. "I want you to join my secret police. You need to take 
the mark in order to join." said Lucien Judas. "I want to take the mark." said Leon. 
Lucien Judas applied the mark to Leon's forehead. "I have a gift for you. It is armor. 
The armor consists of two chain guns and two rocket launchers. I want you to guard 
one of my 18 spears. Here is a map to the location of the spear." said Lucien handing 
the map to Leon.

The following is an overview of the rest of the book.

John fights Apollyon and slays the demon.

The Two Witnesses

            John goes to see the two witnesses at the Wailing Wall.

Operation D8515205000011010000001110000101

            John is ordered by the President to kill Lucien since Lucien is a terrorist 
to the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada.

The Mark of the Beast

            Lucien comes back to life, gets indwelt by Satan, and the mark of the 
beast is issued.

Armageddon

            John fights in the battle of Armageddon. John fights the False Prophet, 
The Antichrist, and Satan. Jesus comes back and throws the Antichrist and the False 
Prophet into the Lake of Fire forever. Satan is thrown into the bottomless pit for 
a thousand years.

Victory

            John fights Satan one last time. Jesus throws Satan into the Lake of 
Fire forever.
