
 B.J. vs. Shocker
 
 Story:
 The year is 1972, 30 years after the famous William Joseph Blazkowitz has defeated the Nazis at Wolfenstein and helped bring an end to the war.  But now former Nazis have regrouped and have become the secret terrorist organization known as Shocker. 
 You, Blazkowitz Jr, his son, has discovered this organization and a new hero fighting the evil.  They call him Kamen Rider!  
 
 
 
 
 Foes:
  
 Waffen SS Gaurd
 Unlike their SA(Sturmabteilungen) Brownshirt counterparts, these guys have, well, grey shirts. But they still are tricky in numbers!
  
 Waffen SS Officer
 These guys, just like the Waffen Gaurds, have grey shirts.  And, just like the white officers, they have a VERY FAST firing rate!
 
 Gestapo
 Unlike the elite Shutzstaffel/SS, these guys patroll the areas for suspicious people. But dont be fooled, these guys also wear bulletproof vests and carry big guns!
  
 Mutant Psyco Dogs
 These are mutant dogs, who lost sanity via getting neutered.  They resemble the Kuro-Shibas in appearence, but have rabies and can KILL!
 
 Mutants
 Brought back to life with Dr. Schabbs LDD4, Mutants have three arms. Two have mere knives, but the third arm in his chest has one hell of an accurate gun.
  
 Hanzuu Gurossah
 This big lummox carries two chainguns and isnt afraid to use them.  But he can be killed with anything, even knives/handguns if you can do it right(This works in 4th encounter only, scince it was used for testing).
 
 Toranzuu Gurossah
 Toranzuu, like Hanzuu, has two chainguns, but has spikes on his shoulders and tougher dark green armour.
 
 Sukabbusu Kuronn
 Watch out, this guy's a clone of Sukabbusu Sensei(Who appears in the final level), but has flying syringes that are tougher than a missle.
 
 
 UbaaMutant
 This guy's bark might be worse than his bite, but the chaingun in his chest is worse than his bark!
 
 Kaizo-Giftmacher
 A cyborg version of Otto Giftmacher(hence his name), this guy has TOUGH armour, two rocket launchers on his shoulders to acconpany his chainguns, and a badd attitude!
 
 Mecha-BJ
 Sukabbusu Sensei has decided that the only monster that can stop you-is yourself! Comes as regular and ghost mode.
