                     

                             N  e  o W  o  l  f
                                 ----------
                                version 1.00
                         ---------------------------
                              February 25, 1999


              HIT [F2] TO SWITCH TO NORMAL TEXT SCROLLING SPEED


        Welcome to 'NeoWolf', an upgrade for Wolfenstein 3-D.  I've stretched
wolfenstein's graphic capabilities to the limit.  All the walls and many of
the objects have been changed.  Installation info is in READTHIS.NOW


The Story:
-----------

	It's 1999 and there has been word that there is Nazi activity 
stirring in old Wolfenstein Castle.  There is suspicion that the Nazis might
be trying to gain control of some nuclear warheads.  You are C.J. Blazkowicz,
B.J. Blazkowicz grandson (no not commander keen, C.J. is his cousin) and a 
Navy SEAL.  Because your grandfather pretty much new everything about Castle
Wolfenstein, having escaped from it and all, you get the job to investigate
the happenings.  You must look for the top secret disk that holds the plans
to get nuclear warheads and collect any other less dangerous warheads you 
find. So more than 50 years after your grandfather escaped you come to the 
castle this time to storm it!


New Items:
-----------

The treasure has been changed.

-Blue warhead is semi dangerous and gives you 100 points.
-green warhead is more dangerous and gives you 500 points.
-red warhead is most dangerous and gives you 1000 points.
-The disk contains the top secret plans of how the Nazis are going to get 
 nuclear warheads and gives you 5000 points.

-swastika of protection gives you 100 health, an extra man and some ammo

The life items have been changed also...

-Food gives you 4% life
-Stimpack(small one) gives 10% life
-Medkit(large one) gives you 25%

I changed it around cus' I didn't like the idea of all this food lying all 
over the place.  Now its more like Doom or Quake; there are stimpacks/medkits
lying around in convenient places for more fast paced action.  I still kept 
the food but now its only near a table or in a kitchen or storage area.


The Levels:
------------

Level 1  - The Cellar.  shows off the new graphics pretty well and is a nice
           easy way to start off the episode.
Level 2  - Underhalls.  Nothing that unusual about this level.  But its well
           done and fun.
Level 3  - The Focus.  This is the level where you get the disk but you still
           have to get through 6 more levels!
Level 4  - The Library.   Collumns... yay!
Level 5  - The Fake.  There is just enough ammo to complete the level.
Level 6  - The Gauntlet.  Just what the name says.
Level 7  - Gathering.  Hard Level; read the hints if you have trouble.
Level 8  - The Race.  Can you make it all the way through alive??? Very fun
           level.
Level 9  - Cyber-Grosse.  Guess.
Level 10 - Quake.  The "secret" level!



Tools I used:
--------------

Paint Shop Pro 3.11
Corel PHOTO-PAINT 5
WinTex 3.41 by Olivier Montanuy
Mapedit 7 by Bill Kirby
WolfEdit 2.1 by Bill Kirby
Wolfenstein Audio Editor 1.1 by Bill Neisius

I got pieces of graphics from:
Spear of Destiny
Mac Wolfenstein
Doom II
Hexen
Quake

I got some sounds from:
Mac Wolfenstein
Doom II
Team Fortress


Thanks to:
-----------
-id software for making Wolfenstein, Doom, Quake, Quake2 and soon Quake3.
 And they released the source code for Wolf3d and Doom; they're such nice
 guys!
-David "Grover" Shierer helped with a few levels and some other stuff


Copyright and Distribution Permissions:
----------------------------------------

Authors MAY use this modification as a basis for other publically
available, not-for-profit work, provided they inform the author of any
modifications which are made and give the author credit where it is due.

You may distribute this Wolfenstein modification in any electronic
format as long as this description file remains intact and unmodified,
and is retained along with all of the files.

If anyone else would like to include this modification in a collection
of Wolf3D modifications, whether for sale or otherwise, you must contact me
and let me know about it.


Where you can get this mod:
----------------------------

http://www.ziplink.com/~shiba/



Yeah, that's about it.  Have fun!

Ben Blaufarb - dla_one (at) yahoo.com
