The Spear

Storyline
1945
" With the spear in our posession we have the power to 
rule the world, the world can ruled by fear"
Adolf Hitler

"Only the loyal in blood can be loyal in siprit"
Heinrich Himmler

The Holy Spear, the Spear of Longinus, Adolf Hitler found the spearhead
in Vienna's Hoftberg Museum, took it to a Castle Wolfenstein, which is the heart 
of where 
the secret Nazi scheame is arranged in a room at the very peek safely
guarded. Hitler discovered he had new powers with this holy rellic,
but the power is all in the mind. Rumour has it that the holy Spear was stolen by

an evil castrated magician by the name of Klingsor, who know exactly how the Spear

ended up in the hands of Adolf Hitler?
The Allies have a plan, if we can rescue the Spear we can put an end to The Third 
Riech,
our only hope is Captain BJ Blazcowicks also known as The One Man Army.
You are Captain BJ Blazcowicks the One Man Army, your mission is as follows,
you must enter a Castle Wolfenstein and rescue the Spear, this castle is situated 

in some forest,  good luck BJ and try to come back in one piece
with the spear.

About

Thank you for downloading The Spear, my 2nd Wolfenstein mod,
this mod is a prequal to my first mod End of the third riech, the 
storyline of The Spear takes place before End of the third riech, the
storyline is loosely based on the original Spear of destiny, plus
largely based around a book by James Herbert The Spear,
which is what this mod is named after.

Although it's actually a Wolfenstein mod rather than a Spear
of Destiny mod ( the reason being is oroginally I couldn't
compile the SOD code ). But alot of modifications
were made to make this mod as close to Spear of destiny 
as I could possibly achieve.





The Spear features are as follows



30 seamless levels ( 18 + 1 normal levels, 2 secret levels, 6 Super Secret levels 
and 2 Ultra Secret levels ).
Many new and imported vswap graphics and sounds.
New imported music.
New VGA graphics.
Changed ceiling colours and multiple floor colours.
Changed menu colour.
Changed screen colour.
New End art.
New Demos.
25 ammo crate added.
Boss action replays removed, all bosses drop appropriate keys.
Spear of destiny added to make it more like a Spear of destiny mod.


Level names

Level 1 White forest
It's snowing, don't aske me why but you BJ park your truck
in by some trees and have to find your way into the Castle nearby.

Levels 2-5 tunnels
The castle is an old fortress, to get to the castle you have to travel
through a series of underground tunnels, but it gets more civilised as you go up.


Levels 6 - 10 dungeons
After the tunnels yoru still in the very lower levels of the old fortress,
the dungeons are where people are taken prisnors, many people are left to 
die and perish here.

Levels 11 - 16 the castle
You have made it to the main castle, this castle is very old, here you
will find mutents, these mutents are DR Scabb's older creations
and what happened to some of the prisnors who survived.
The castle is where Dr Scabb's use to work and live,
Dr Scabb's has since mooved on to a bigger facility
and left these mutants here to reside.

Level 17 ramparts
Your mission is nearing a end, here you are on the top of the castle where you can 
get 
the best view from down below.

Level 18 Part 1 castle peek
At the very peek of the castle in a large open room you 
have one last fight to gain acess to The Spear.

Level 18 Part 2 
After taking The Spear you are sucked into Hell 
to fight with the Angel of Death to find out who is 
worthy of wieldering The Spear.

Secret levels
There are 2 secret levels that can be accessed within the first 18 levels. 

Super Secret and Ultra Secret levels
Access to these levels can be very well hidden.





Credits
First off I would like to thank Id Software for the relese of Wolfenstein 3D and 
it's
prequal Spear of Destiny, thanks also to Form Gen Corp for the 2 Spear addons,
Return to danger and Ultimate chalnge. Thanks also to Id Software for relesing
the Wolfenstein 3D Source code. Thanks also to the people who make other Wolfenstein

editing utilities avalible for the general public to use like Floe Edit and Chaos 
Edit.
Credit goes to BJ Rowen for use of vswap graphics and sounds from his Project Totengraber,

Areyep and MCS for use any vswap graphics, sounds and music from Spear ressurection 
and End of Destiny, Form Gen 
Corp for use of vswap graphics and sounds from their 2 Spear mod mission packs, Id 
software for use of
vswap graphics, sounds, music and some vga graphics used in original Wolfenstein 
3D and Spear of destiny, Paal 
Olstad for use of vswap graphics from his Wolfenstein mods, Ken O Brian for use of 
the white guald from a SOD mod Harry Senior for use of brown mutant from SR's Wolf 
mods,
Apogee for use of vswap graphics that were for a Wolfenstein sequal that never was, 
Laz Rogers for use of vswap graphics
and sounds from Mac Wolfenstein and Wolfendoon, Nate Smith for use of vswap graphics 
and sounds
from Beyond Wolfenstein, WSJ for use of sounds from his mods, plus a few vswap graphics 
that I hand drew for this mod.
Reactor for his collection of IMF files and credit goes to whoever made any of the 
imported music used in this mod.
Finally I would like to thank some people for uploading Source code tutorials, Thanks 
to all who uploaded source code tutorials on
the Wolfenstein 3D Dome and Mr Lowe's Wolfenstein 3D page, thanks to Areyep and MCS 
for Source code tutorials
( namely the seamless level shortcut ), thanks also to Paal Olstad for Source code 
tutorials on his Wolfenstein page, thanks
also to Luke Strauman for his Wolfenstein page of Source code tutorials, especially 
the Spear code to use 
in Wolfenstein.
Thanks again to everyone for use of their content in this mod, I hope this will be 
a mod that many will be proud of in 
years to come.  



Conditions
You may distribute this mod as freeware ( for non profet use only ) , you may use 
this mod as a base for your own mod, if you want to use vswap graphics or sounds 
from this mod fine by me, credits as mentuined above, you may use the levels 
in this mod for your mods, that's fine by me.














 