
Storyline (January, 1944)

In the midst of Endlösung, the Nazis’ ideology of killing all Jews throughout Europe, 
Hitler is weak. He realises that the game is lost, but he has no idea of retiring. 
Via underground activities in America and the Soviet Union, various Jewish families 
and groups suffer under surveillance and stalking, resulting in riots, car bombs 
and attacks in local areas of Los Angeles, Chicago and New York. The Jewish minority 
in the Soviet Union has also experienced disturbance from Nazi sympathisers and supportive 
groups. American spies have infiltrated various classified areas all over the German 
Reich, and have also spotted Hitler’s hideout.

The Allied forces have gotten hold of a new project; a reverse form of the Nazis’ 
Endlösung. Not only to eliminate Nazis, but all sympathisers as well; though innocents 
may pay the fine. In the middle of all this, they hire an American spy, B.J. Blazkowicz, 
to infiltrate Hitler’s hideout. An underground bunker system is spotted in the Bohemian 
forests, on the border of Bavaria and Sudetenland. 

Together with Hitler, Herman Götting was the one who suggested the creation of underground 
allies in America and the Soviet Union. He is guarding the first land post, located 
in a forest lair outside Hof in the middle of the mountains. Since WW1, Hitler has 
been close friends with Gerald Schwarz who is guarding the fifth post; his son, Schwarz 
Jr., also became a big friend and close ally of Hitler – he will be guarding the 
second post. 

For his third post, Hitler has chosen the “Switcher”, better known as “Einaugen”, 
also known by the Allied Forces as “One-Eyed Jack”. Up and until 1936, he was a general 
in the Red Army, but got to the point where he did not trust Communism anymore. In 
danger of being murdered, he joined the Nazis under violent circumstances; at first 
Hitler thought he was a liar and had the SS beat him up. But when he realised he 
was wrong, he chose him as the guardian of the third and half-way post of Hitler’s 
underground settlement.

Sewarion Zwötze is guarding the fourth post. A highly decorated general, he participated 
in both WW1 and the Spanish civil war. Being a Hitler sympathiser since the Beer 
Hall-days, he was chosen to guard the second-to-last post before the final area. 
Throughout the years, he earned a nickname among both friends and enemies, “Scheissegesicht”, 
literally “Shit Face”. For reasons unexplained, rumour has it originates from a drunken 
night on the Bavarian town. 
So far, that is all we know.

A codename for the Hitler murder itself is “Going after Hitler”, since it’s obvious 
and surely most important. His post will be heavily guarded and in much larger instalment 
than the first five marks. We wish you luck, B.J.!






Enemies
Throughout the game, you will meet and greet with Hitler’s army. 
Here’s to recognize one from another.


Wehrmacht Guard. These are weak, though they’re the most seen guards. Not protected 
by more than a shirt and a jacket, you can spot these likely in kitchen areas and 
the prisons.


German police dog. The strength of these is heavier than the guards, but they’re 
easier to kill.
However, when in crowds, they can be tougher than the hounds of hell.


SS Guard. The SS is Hitler’s secret police. Not only do these guys wear bulletproof 
vests, but also carry machineguns, making them many inches tougher than the Wehrmacht 
dunces. They are very faithful to Hitler, and would risk their life for him more 
than many others of his goons.


Officer. Wearing an unusual white uniform, these run very fast and are really naive 
and anxious about the whole project. They are known to be neurotic and to have a 
great hearing. As with the dogs, these might not seem that dangerous, but if there’s 
more than one, it’s going to be heavy.

Mutant. An old acquainted of Hitler’s, Dr. Schabbs, created these in a test-lab around 
the same areas of Bavaria back in the day. They consist of dead soldiers coupled 
with powers that are yet unknown. Rumour has it Schabbs got the inspiration after 
watching a dubbed version of Frankenstein at the movies.

Flamethrower Guard. Formerly of the SA, this squad was picked especially for the 
underground instalment. They carry a flamethrower and wear a thermo uniform, so they 
are very hard to kill. Not to mention the spooky gas mask they also wear.

BOSS #1: Herman Götting. A Bavarian native, he was also a school athlete and also 
known as a great thinker. His philosophical studies were canceled when he heard Hitler 
had risen to power, and he quickly got a job as a personal assistant for Joseph Goebbels. 
That being said he quit his “thinking”.


BOSS #2: Gerald Schwarz, Jr. As with his dad, he is trustful and tougher than the 
rest. Armed with not only a chain gun, but also a missile launcher, he is probably 
the most dangerous boss other than Hitler. Note the bulletproof vest!


BOSS #3: “Einaugen”. His real name is not known, but it has been stated he was born 
in Ufa in 1887. He was a favourite of Stalin’s before he rose to power, but when 
he switched sides he was wanted dead. Carries a missile launcher, but is not that 
hard to victor, since he’s only got one eye.

 BOSS #4:  “Scheissegesicht”. He is the weakest of the bosses. Carries only two chain 
guns, wears a bulletproof vest and a jockstrap. Be careful of the stories you’ve 
heard.

BOSS #5: Gerald Schwarz, Sr. Hitler’s close friend and just as well armoured as his 
son. Not known to be open or cooperative for other than the leader himself, and therefore 
roams his post by himself. Rumour also has it that he and his son cannot stand each 
other.

Hitler, of course, resides on the last post in an enormous, much complex bunker system.

Catch a glimpse of the madman across the water, B.J. God’s speed!

CREDITS:

Coding:
RonWolf

Graphics:
Alvin
BJ Rowan
MajikMonkee
Ringman

Sounds:
AReyeP
BJ Rowan
Laz Rojas
Raphael

I am sorry if these are not the exact creators; but it was borrowed from their mods.


Music:
Elton John (Episode 6, Map 2)

Editors used:
MapEdit
FloEdit
ChaosEdit
Borland C+ 3.1

The game was constructed between March 20 and May 4, 2009.

CONTACT:
Feel free to contact me at: thomas_weiling (at) hotmail.com.

