Dungeon Quest Part 1:Barons from the underworld

Level desighn:Alan.B.Clem (alanclem@hotmail.com)
Graphics:Alan.B.Clem
Additional Image assistance:Laz Rojaz,Casey Renz
Playtesting:Casey Renz

	The year is 321 A.D., Wicked beasts have been harassing the land for some twenty years for no known cause, an evil mage has declared war on the city of Tarikana.  
	To find the start of this war we must go back some twenty years in a small village about 5 miles outside of Tarakina called Silamor.  One day one of the villagers set out on his wagon to pick up supplies at Tarakina.  He was due to arrive back home at dawn the next morning.  Dawn came the next morning and he didnŐt show up.  The village people were worried but they thought something must have came up and he had stayed another day.  Days past and he still didnŐt show up.  The people decided to go to Tarakina and find out what happened.  The guards at the gate said no one had past that matched his description all week.  No one had seen him in the city.  The people in the village headed back home suspecting the worst.  On the way home the villagers past through a valley known as Ňdead mans bedÓ what would happen next was Ňone of the scariest things that has ever happened to meÓ said one of the villagers that was an eye witness and only survivor.  
	As the wagons descended into the valley a dark smog covered them from view on the mountains on either side.  suddenly some 200 feet ahead of them  bulges rose from the earth and four figures hatched from them.  They had a head of a bull a chest of a man and legs of a goat.  ŇI thought it was the devil himselfÓ says an eye witness.  One by one all six wagons were destroyed leaving only one survivor fleeing to tell the tale.
	For  years no one believed the one survivor.  More and more men had been missing over the years and in every event there was one survivor.
	Today these strange happenings are no longer happenings the group of witches and wicked ones terrorise the villages of the Nation of Valarian.  The military has been battling them with all they can do but it seems they only can be destroyed from within there realm.  
	Some of the nations best mages and warriors have attempted to enter there tower but have never returned.  
	And so a young boy named Thorax (you) has been teaching himself the ways of the mages and has earned himself a name as the best swordsman of the land at a young age.  He wishes to help the people in ending the war on them by destroying these wicked ones.
	It is thought that an evil mage nick named the flash deamon (for he spontanious attacks on villages with the use of his powers he has to ignite things almost effortlessly) is behind the invasion.  He comes from a long Line of mages, his father was Fantario one of the most respected mages of the land but when "flash deamon" was born he was soon hated because his mother was a witch and the people of the land hated witches.  When "flash deamon" was seven his father began to teach him the ways of the great mages of Tarakina.  
	When the people found out that Fantario had a witch for a wife they began to harras him with jokes and brutal beatings.  Over the years the flash deamon became more and more powerfull untill he became a war mage.  
	After years of abuse Fantario couldn't take the stress of being harased every day so he ran far far away and became a hermit in the woods, and one day he was killed by a band of Warlocks.  
	"Flash deamon" had been living with his mother in a tower just outside of Tarakina when one day the same band of mage killers that had killed Fantario stormed in there realm and killed his mother and attacked flash deamon.  Flash deamon was comprehended by the king knights and forced to work for the king as a mage.  One day Flash deamon fled to the woods and lived with the evil trolls of the forest.
	Years past and Flash returned to Tarkina swearing he would make the city people pay for what they did to his family.  He struck the city people with a vengance and terrorised the people.  His power was much to strong for the military to fight off and he had a thirst for power over the city.  He raised spirits from the under world and created a massive army of undead beasts and declared war on the land.  
	You have volenteered to penetrate the fortress in wich flash deamon lived and atemp to reach "flash Deamon" and put an end to his evil ways.
	By some eye witness encounters and oricals, we have come up with a list of enimies that you can expect to see while in the tower.  If there are others make a mental note and report back to us when you return.  for future refrence.

These lost souls are streght from the underworld and have been 
looking for there bodies for hundreds of years.  They can inflict 
terrible damage when they travel in numbers but are nothing more
than an anoyance by them-selves.

	Imps have for thousands of years yearned to visit earth but have
always lacked the power and knowledge to find there way up.  
Flash deamon has suspected to have summend some 10,000
of these Imps up to earth.

These skeletons are suspected to have come from the future and
though only witnessed a few times have reported to be very fast
moving and have strong armor and fire a metal progectile at you.

	Large numbers of the kings war mages where sent out to the
sight of flash deamons tower and never returned they either 
died or joined Flash Deamon.  They where unlikly killed 
because they usually send one home as soon as trouble is sighted
and none of the mages returned.

The Trolls wich flash deamon ran to live with in the forest are 
likely liveing in the tower with him now.  Be aware there war 
capabilities should not be toyed with or underestimated.

	The Barons of hell were the main force in the invasion and 
raiseing of numerous cities and villages around Valarion.
There flame swords fire should be avoided as much as you 
can.

	Foltok Carion was once a famed warrior and guard over Tarkina.
He was a good freind of Fantario and promised to protect his only 
son after he left.  

Grom Hellscream has been a part of many of the legends told by
the eye wittnesses of flashes attacks and is said to have eaten mens
hearts out of them when they where still alive.  This Orc is for certain 
not a character to be recond with.

These mummies have been witnesed in many tombs and caves
over Valarian and flash deamon has reportedly recruited these to
help him in the war.

The Armored head has been used by many mages to transport
And protect them and Flash Deamon is said to have used them in
the past and probably is now.

We have formulated a list of items that you will likly incounter inside
the tower.

Swords can come in handy when fighting the weaker foes
and you can probably find one kicking around the tower.

	This stick wand was given to you by your father when you where
a child,  It's weak and slow but may prove to be handy in some 
situations

	The repeater wand is standard equipment for the great 
mages of tarikina, it's fast and has a moderate damage. 

	The snake lord wand has been one of the fastest firing mana
wepons in history.  Good to use in imergencies and good to take
out some of the stonger foes.

	The trolls of the forest have researched for centuriesthe throwing
 battle axe and have come up with an ultimatewepon.  Flash deamon
wepon.  Flash deamon researched it further and applied 
mana powers mana powers to it.

	More battle axes to throw.  He He.  Go easy they can go fast
and there hard to find.

The mage crossbow is the most powerfull wepon in the
history of warfare and will probably remain that way.
This wepon has been said to take out buildings in a single
shot.  Not even Flash can withstand to many of these shots

This is ammo for the stick wand, repeater wand and snake 
wand.

These huge bottles of mana power the same wepons as
above.

This is a more potent type of mana.  It's for the crossbow.

These sheilds increase armor 10%

This armor is found all around the tower. Increases armor 25%

	These helmets only increase armor 3% or 4% but could be the
difference between life and death.

Hint:When and if you reach flash deamons lair (the second last level) Don't try to kill the gaurds in the wall.  When you are walking around never walk always run (shift and arows).  Run to the room that flash is in open the door fire a bunch of axes untill his gaurds get close to you, run back to the first room and pick  up a bunch of health, run around, running past the gaurds while shooting them with the most powerfull wepon you have.  If you find yourself in trouble run back to the first room (make sure the gaurds arn't there) and pick up some health and and ammo.  If possible get the bad guys in one of the rooms that has no wall gaurds in it.  This level is beatable and can be very fun and challenging if you don't cheat.

My long term plan for Dungeon Quest is to continue making parts to it.  I love wolfenstein and I want it to stay alive, I plan on making at least 3 parts to dungeon quest and maybe even 4.  
If you Would like any help with your scenario's or have any comments sugestions or would like to be a part of one of my projects please let me know.  My e-mail is alanclem@hotmail.com
																				
If you liked the first dungeon quest you'll love the sequel.  It will feature more new levels and graphics.  Unfortunatly you may not see it for another few monthes but when I get it done you'll know.  It will be on the wolf 3d lair so check back there frequently not only for dungeon quest but for other scenario's and news about wolfenstein.
																																											
Scenario created by
Alan.B.Clem

Level Desighn by
Alan.B.Clem

Graphic desighn and layout by
Alan.B.Clem

Additional graphic assistance provided by
Laz Rajaz & Casey Renz

File distributing by
Casey Renz

Thanks to
ID SoftwareŞ, Blizzard SoftwareŞ
 & CyanŞ
Special thanks to
J.R.R. Tolkien