                           Making a new descriptions file.

         The first example is the game 'Guns and Glory'. Because not much
         is normal here it will be somewhat of a challenge (as you can see,
         I tried). Pretend you know nothing about the game.
Tools:   You have the game and VSWAPED and VSMAPED.

The palette. 
         Using VSWAPED will pose no problems, but you will see that many
         items are weirdly colored. This is a sign that the game uses its own
         palette which you must obtain. Follow the instructions in the
         palette tool help file, choose a palette wall and capture the palette.
         Make the entries multiples of 4 and save the palette as fex.'G&G.pal'.
         It can be done in 7 minutes. Load your palette and see the difference.

Structures.
         Start VSMAPED with 'G&G.pal'. Load a suitable starting file, fex.
         '_wolfenstein.txt'. If there are floor and ceiling structures in
         the game, you will be asked to set the ranges. It is not at all
         difficult because ordinary wall images normally come in pairs.
         Start 'MISC/edit description file' on the first line and put in
         the numbers 'walls from','Structures'(from) and 'Upto'(the number
         after the last structure). Press 'USE' and 'SAVE FILE' under a
         new name fex. 'G&G.txt'. So far so good.

Saved games
         A quick test shows that VSMAPED can't handle saved games of this mod
         so feel free to delete all saved game entries (lines with '*' as
         character no. 7) in _G&G.txt. I you aren't interested in saved games
         at all, don't worry about them.
         Now to some hard work.

Overview. 
         The floor codes look plausible and also the walls. They should indeed
         show correctly. But the elevators must have moved to a new location.
         The doors look wrong and from VSWAPED you can see that there must be
         17 kinds of doors. You will take care of that later.
         The floor/ceiling structures look sensible.
         The 3D window confirms that the walls and floors/ceilings are ok but
         the doors are all purple.
         The corner cells in a level may have something to do with light,
         shading or weather phenomena. The meaning is unique for each game and 
         I won't discuss it here. You can make some experiments of your own.
         But the object part looks like a total mess! It surely is,
         hands with weapons sticking up from the ground!
         In 'normal' mods most of the features are taken care of by the program
         but in this case you can make your life a bit easier if you write
         'new' in the comment in the first line. Then all described objects
         will be shown as empty squares and you're not confused by
         irrelevant symbols. But you must make some corrections by hand.
         An object standing on a 'deaf guard' floorcode is probably a guard. 
         MARK the start positions and go through a few levels. There should be
         one in each so they too have moved.
         Now get an impression of how many items are used in the game:
         Start MISC/Statistics for the whole file, and to see it graphically:
         Get the graphics list (Press EDIT and lower the lists part).
         Press the single arrow to the right.
         Items used in the level will be covered with a square, white for
         solids, pink for objects. Those listed in the descriptions
         are large, those not listed are small. Go through the levels using the
         keyboard 'down' arrow. At end you see all the items used in the game.
         Quite a lot, isn't it? But don't despair.

Totals:  The maximum totals of static objects, actors and doors are important,
         if one or more is exceeded, the game will surely crash. For most mods
         they are 399, 149 and 64, respectively.
         In this game I know they are 999, 499 and 512. If it always were so...

The mystery box.
         On each level you see a rectangular box containing unidentified items.
         It seems to be some sort of copyright stamp. It is not important
         for the performance of the game.
             
Start positions.
         As said, only one start position to each level. Looking at statistics
         you see that the positions 257-260 is just such a group of 4. Get the
         graphics list, choose an item here, write 'Start position' in the
         descriptions and choose a symbol. Press 'USE'. As a bonus, the item
         261 is often neighbor to a wall that looks like a staircase, and there
         is mostly just one, so probably it is an end-of-level trigger.
         Delete the old start positions. Finally, save the file.

Recording.
         You are now in position to record any item.
         I shall give just a few examples, leaving the rest to you.
         Normally VSMAPED knows which items are objects and which are actors,
         but being a 'not normal' mod it is handled otherwise here:
         1. All items with an image are considered static objects apart from:
         2. items with 1 or 2 neighbors with identical names are actors.
            Identical means: no direction qualifiers like 'E' in the name,
            Then the guards will look in the right direction in the 3D window,
            and the statistics will be less bulky. 
         3. Some isolated actors must be pointed out by adding 50 to the name.
         Impenetrable actors (torches fex.) will be preceded by 59 (50+9).

        *The walls 1 or 2 look conspiciously like an elevator. Put one of each
         near the start on level 1, save the maps (with backup), and start
         the game. Yes! Wall 1 IS an elevator, wall 2 is just a 'fake'.
         Exit the game. Back in VSMAPED, RESTORE the game to normal but keep
         the backup. Start 'edit descriptions'. Choose wall 1 and write
         'Elevator' and choose the elevator symbol. Press 'USE'. Do the same
         for the fake elevator. Delete the old elevators. Wall no. 5 appears
         always close to an elevator and looks like an 'Elevator rail' wall.
         It must be. Write that for wall no. 5 and choose a fitting symbol:
         no. 1038.
         You can go through all the items, see what they look like or what
         happens when you walk into them. It can be quite funny.

        *For example, choose no. 320 (sprite 64) and put one near start, Save.
         DON'T OVERWRITE THE BACKUP! Start the game. It looks like Baby Hans
         in a gokart. He is not aggressive but if YOU kill him he disappears,
         leaving a blue key. If you have a weak memory, make a screen image.
         Back, write 'HansKart  blue key' and choose a symbol fex. the grey
         pacman. Now look for him in the VSWAP file. After some searching you
         find him as sprite no. 1576. Write 1576 as 'image #'. As he leaves a
         key he should be classified as 'key' (4), but being an actor also,
         write the number 54 (50+4) ahead of his name and USE the information.
         Fine, he shows up when you move the mouse over him. RESTORE the game.
         What's more: in level 28, 'Wolfenkart' you see our friend and his 7
         siblings lined up for a race. Get the other ones, they are like him. 
         Save descriptions regularly.

        *Invisible objects are not so obvious. You do have the start positions
         but there are also turning points, secret doors and various triggers.
         It will take some guesswork. There are fex. the hands from below, and
         if you pick one and insert it in the map, nothing is seen in the game.
         As it is outdoors it can hardly be a secret door but if your guess is
         'turning point' you're right. It will do no harm to try this
         possibility. MARK the suspects. Good, they make a group of 8 items,
         no. 286-293. Now, using some qualified guesses, you can attach
         directions to them all, and it works! For good measure, delete the old
         turning points. Secret doors are almost always inside a wall.
         All other immaterial objects I call 'triggers' to be examined later.

        *A guard and the like may be unfriendly and I suggest you build a cage
         for him out of hard objects and have plenty of weapons and power-ups
         close at hand. Get a picture and find him in the VSWAPED file.
         Superguards fex. Hans are easy, They are unique and have one
         single image. The same goes for pacmen and ghosts. For an ordinary
         guard there may be 24 entries: standing/running, skill 1,3,4 of
         a group of 4, always facing E,N,W and S. Dogs have 12 entries because
         they always run. After having identified the guard look for pictures
         6,4,2,0 for standing, 14,12,10,8 for running, from the start of his
         images. Skill doesn't matter for the images. When you are assigning
         skill to the entries, take your time and use the game.

         In this way proceed with identifying the remaining entries, find
         the keys and their corresponding doors, find teleports and triggers.
         To discover the nature of an item, fill level 1 with it, start the
         game, and note the error message of 'too many...(object or actors)'.

Saved games.
         If you want to work with saved games in some mod, You should follow
         the procedures above, only insert items, run the game, and obtain a
         saved game from which you identify entries, and record them in lines
         with '*' as character no. 7.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

             Second example: Corridor 7 Alien Invasion (Play Now version).

         Suppose a friend gets a copy of the old game and asks you to make a
         description file for VSMAPED. You agree. Full of self-confidence you
         start VSMAPED with your copy of the game. As default you use the
         files for Wolfenstein v1.0, expecting an easy task.

         Gfxtiles instead of VSWAP, well..OK. Eventually the first level shows.
         Click EDIT and lower the panel. You can't do without the graphic list.
         WHAT THE **@**!? IS THIS MESS??? The level seems all covered with
         objects. A statistics reveals that there are 3865 of object no. 18 in
         this level. They can hardly be normal objects so remembering Vincent's
         manual (which of course you have read) you start description editing
         and assign the 'invisible' symbol no. 256 to no.18. USE. It works.

         Now what's happened to the floors??? The 3D window doesn't work.
         There are however some unlisted areas fex. '90' that could be
         a floor. I isn't but you can MAKE it a floor by assigning
         a symbol in the range 106 to 143 to it, fex. no. 112, and call it
         'Floor 90'. The 3D window confirms that it works.
         Do the same thing for the other suspicious areas, excellent!

         Now to enjoy the surroundings. Alas, the colors are ridiculous, you
         must get the game palette! Start VSWAPED/palette tool and obtain the
         palette as usual. It certainly improves the looks!

         Never satisfied? The objects seem sensible, but the walls are rubbish!
         What's going on? An inspection of the list of walls shows that there
         are no wall pairs (light and dark). Now what? The manual says that if
         you write 'single' in the comment in line 0, there will only be one
         image to each wall. You do that, save descriptions, close and reopen
         VSMAPED. Nicer.

         What's that? Level 2's floors are covered with a structure. They
         shouldn't be. Choose MISC/ignore..., then they will disappear from
         the 3D view.

         On level 3, some guards are standing on wall no.138. Name it
         'Floor ambush' and give it the symbol no.106(X). It works fine.

         It is fairly easy to see where doors should be, so write 'Door FC'
         fex. and use a non-direction door symbol. Continue with this.
         Marking the usual 'doors' shows that they are never used as doors.
         Bearing in mind that Doors are searched by the name, just delete
         the old doors.

         You can just as well delete the old floor entries and elevators. 

         Some unlisted walls (characterized by a hex number) are now seen.
         Give them names but leave the image# as 'auto'. The symbol# should
         be set to 256, invisible, at least for old floors.

         ----------------------------------------------------------------------
         So far so good, regarding the walls and floors. Now to the objects.

         Start-positions and turning-points are unchanged, good!

         It appears that the entry numbers of the first 89 objects are simply
         the object numbers, like in wolfenstein. Piece of cake!
         Give them new names and symbols.

         For temporarily avoiding false symbols, you can put 'new' in line 0's
         comment. All items without symbols are then seen as small squares.
 
         As for the actors, imsert specimens in level 1 close to start and
         proceed like for Guns and Glory.


                                     Good Luck
                                      Vincent