Brutal Damage


Story:
In fall 2005,a professional killer named David "the death bringer" Johnson was hired 
by the 
italian mafia for a special job.That special job was to pick up some dirty money 
and take it
to their base of operations in the city of Tuolumne,just one of the cities in Tuolumne

county that they controlled all the crime in.They set him up and got him in prison 
because 
the truth is they feared that he was too powerful and that he'd take on the mafia,and 
so
he's now on death row.

But he's not gonna take this crap,he's gonna break out and show these wise guys just 
who
they're dealing with.He's gonna go through the 4 cities which they're taking up the 
night 
life in.Jamestown,Columbia,Sonora,and finally,Tuolumne.He's gonna paint these towns 
red,with
the blood of the mob.

You're hiding in a corner of your prison cell,waiting for the guard to come in.He 
walks 
through the door and before he knows what's going on,you slit his throat and take 
his Colt
45.Taking his rifle wouldn't be bright seeing how it's heavier then the pistol and 
you're 
gonna be walking through 4 different cities.Besides,you always loved shooting a Colt 
45,and
if you're shooting 2 Colt 45's that'd be even better.


Levels:

E P I S O D E   0 1
Levels 1,2,3-Prison
Levels 4,5-Columbia
Level 6-The house of Tommy "Chainguns",Sonora
Levels 7,8-Sonora
Level 9-The Doctor's mansion,Sonora
Level 10-Secret level hidden within Prison

E P I S O D E   0 2
Levels 1,2,3-Jamestown
Level 4-The house of "Chainguns" Tommy,Jamestown
Levels 5,6-Big Leo's restaurant,Tuolumne
Level 8-Tuolumne
Level 9-Big Leo's mansion,Tuolumne
Level 10-Secret level hidden within Jamestown

Weaponry:
Knife-Custom made knife that you made years ago,you keep it sheathed in your boot 
so no one 
can find it.

Colt 45-Standard sidearm for the prison guards and the mafia's personal soldiers.


Colt 45 X2-It's 2 Colt 45s,meaning double the fun as 1 Colt 45.These are the guns 
you'll 
probably use the most.

M16-Serious firepower here man,eats bullets as much as it kills your enemies.Watch 
your ammo
counter carefully,you don't want to run out of ammo now do you?


Enemies:
Prison guard-They look like the SS from Wolfenstein but they're not,they're way less 
trained
and they are armed with rifles instead of machine guns.Killing them will make them 
drop a 
ammunition clip.

Standard mafia soldier-Fast and agile,armed with a rifle and dressed in green.Killing 
them 
will make them drop a ammunition clip.

Experienced mafia soldier-Tougher then the standard soldiers,these guys are armed 
with AK47s
and are dressed in green.Killing them will make them give you ammunition or another 
Colt 45.

Tommy "Chainguns" Berchetti-Armed with two chainguns,this guy's ready to kill you 
and make
your body look like Ravioli.He's also "Chainguns" Johnny's twin brother.

Doc-This guy used to be a well known and well respected medical doctor,until he started

going insane and raping his female patients.Send this dickhead where he belongs,hell.Killing

him will end the 1st episode.

"Chainguns" Johnny Berchetti-In episode 1,you killed his twin,and he's ready to end 
your 
quest for vengeance.

Big Leo-This is the good fella who runs the whole show,he's armed with a changun 
and a 
rocket launcher.This man's death will end the italian mafia crime wave in Tuolumne 
county.


Items:
Ammo clip-Supplies you with 4-8 bullets.

Dog food-Replenishes 4% of health.

Small med kit-Replenishes 10% of health.

Large med kit-Replenishes 25% of health.

1 up-Gives you an extra life,25 bullets,and refills your health to 100%.

Money bags-These bags contain dollar bills that are worth 100-5000 points.So many 
points
will give you an extra life.
