These annotations are supplementary to the Read This! message in the
game itself. Important information in the Read This! may not be 
included here, so be sure to read Wolf Skevos-Jones' notes before
these. 

In the floor notes below, I use the term "Soldiers" to describe any
uniformed soldiers, be they Wehrmacht or SS. Where possible, I
have identified them by the specific type of soldier encountered, 
but that's not always possible, or important.

The term "Guns" refers to either a Pistol, MP40 Machine Gun, Chain
Gun, or the Silent Sten, or any combination of the above. 

There are two weapons used against you that you cannot acquire. They
are the Venom Minigun, (described in the Read This!, but possessed only
by enemy Viper Soldiers), and the rocket launcher, held by some Infantry
Men, two of the Bosses, and the Panzer Tank. I'm not sure what sort of
weapon the Demon on floor 22 uses, but don't let it hit you. 

Where I have given a strategy suggestion below, I have managed to defeat
one or more enemies with no loss of Health or Armor, (the exception is
at the beginning of floor 20, where I lost all of my Armor in the opening
fray). You may find other strategies equally effective in those situations, 
but mine will work, if you execute properly. Expect to do a lot of saving
in the more difficult sections. 

I didn't use Word Wrap on this document, so if you would like to refer
to the notes while playing, you can copy the text to a Word document
and print it. No formatting changes will be necessary. I got carried away
with detail on some of the later floors, so these notes would be about 
33 pages when printed. 

I've saved the end of each floor in the Saved Floor folders, as at the end
elevator, so you can do a walk through before playing. All enemies have
been killed, (except Ghosts on the secret floors), all Secrets, and all 
Treasure has been found. Don't trust the end of game statistics; they show
40% for each. I try to play all floors at full Heath and Armor at all times, so
I've been able to leave behind a lot of the reserves, if you're doing a walk
through. I also use as little Ammo as possible, at all times, so you'll have a 
good idea of how much you can waste by seeing how much I didn't need to
use. 

I'm hoping that you can use these annotations to improve your score on
Operation: Heimzalung if you've played it before, or to enhance the 
experience if you're playing for the first time. The opportunity also exists
to play the floor continuously from start to finish without saving, and still
be able to start the next floor with full vitals. The saved games and notes
should also be very useful to those who are playing against the par time.

Good luck, B.J. You Intelligence briefing follows below:

Floor Notes:

1. It's possible to use The Knife exclusively on this floor. The three Secrets
can be found by looking in the stone areas; don't bother checking the
forest perimeter. 

There are Land Mines in the second forest area. They appear as gray rectangles
on the black forest floor. In non forested areas of the game, they are black.
Forested areas with Land Mines will usually have a skull and cross bones sign,
with the word "Gefahr", (Danger).

There is Health to be found in the elevator.

Note that the 100% Health Pill does not give you any points or Ammo, but
it does count towards the Treasure total.

There is no key for the locked door in the elevator. If you give the Guard
in the elevator enough time, he will open the locked door, but there's only
black inside.

2. I used The Knife until the second locked door, (blue key). It's not
necessary, as there is plenty of ammo on this floor. Look for the three 
Secrets in the walled areas, but watch for several Guards hidden in the 
first wooded area - check this wooded perimeter as you would when looking
for Secrets. You'll have to deal with Land Mines again in the second
wooded area. Move quickly until you find the two barracks. It's best to go
back the same way you came in. 

If you left some Armor behind when you started the floor, it's worth your
while to go back and retrieve it after you've found the elevator to floor 3. 
Once again, there's a locked door in this elevator that you won't be able 
to open.

You'll get your MP40 Machine Gun on this floor. The Guards and Infantry
Men drop either a Pistol or an MP40 Machine Gun when killed. If you 
already have 500 rounds of Ammo, however, you will pick up the gun if 
you walk over it, but you won't gain any extra rounds, so use The Knife 
for Stealth situations, but shoot when you need to.

3. You will encounter the Machine Gunner on floor 3, and there are three
of them. They have tripod-mounted MG42 Machine Guns, and they're
deadly accurate from medium-long range in. They can also absorb a lot of
punishment before they die. They do not, however, always react immediately
to you being in the line of fire, but sometimes they shoot at the same time
you do.

You'll want to fire at them from around a corner; a single shot before 
withdrawing to safety. Expect to expend 35-60 rounds to take out of these
guys, and don't expect to do so without loss of Health and Armor. If you save
the scenarios enough times, you can keep all of your Health and Armor,
(which is what I did), but there is extra H & A to be found, (I left most, if not

all, of it behind). 

There are two secrets on this floor, one of which was difficult to find, as it 
was in the forest, but not part of the perimeter. Look directly ahead at the
forest in front of the locked door from which you start the floor. It's in there

somewhere, but you won't be alone.

Once again, there's no key for the locked door in the elevator which will 
bring you to floor 4.

4. Two new enemies are introduced on floor 4, a Panzer Tank that launches
rockets, (and holds the Gold Key), and the flame-throwing Venom Soldier,
waiting for you in the elevator to floor 5.

The Machine Gunners are a little easier to kill, now that you have weapon 4,
The Chain Gun. You can fire short bursts at them with the Chain Gun, 
rather than single shots with the MP40.

Look for two Secrets, but neither of them are in the forested areas.

5. There's enough Ammo available on floor 5 that you could use your Chain
Gun exclusively, but you'll want to deploy The Knife for Stealth, particularly
in the early part of the floor, and after the second locked door, (Blue Key).

There are a series of doors that can be unlocked with the Gold Key. Guards in
other rooms will be alerted if they hear gunshots, but they will not react to
shouts from other guards, either in rooms, or in corridors.

You'll encounter your first Alarm Box on floor 5. It's light blue, and stuck on a

metal pole. It resembles a Treasure item in some other addons. It will have
some red and yellow bits on it after you dispose of it with some MP40 rounds. 

Watch out for the Venom Soldier who guards the Blue Key.

There are five Secrets on this floor. As there are several interconnected areas,

it's possible that you won't find them all by testing the perimeter. I looked
in each enclosed room or self-contained area, without necessarily going to a
new area through a connecting door, and found all of them fairly easily.

This is not a terribly difficult floor. Use it to bring your Armor up to 100%,
and to take the maximum 500 rounds to floor 6.

6. Floor 6 has some interesting challenges, beginning as you exit the elevator, 

where several Infantry Men await you. There are multiple places where you
can be shot at from the rear, so try to use your Knife when you see doors on 
opposite sides of a corridor.

The red bricked area is a good challenge, with Soldiers firing at you from 3
directions near the Key's location. Pick off the guys in the middle first, then
be aggressive. Move fast, and shoot quickly.

7. Floor 7 is a lot of fun. You'll need to be deft with The Knife, but you'll also

have plenty of opportunities to use your Chain Gun for extended periods. 

There are quite a few Secrets on this floor, somewhere between 5 and 7*,
and one of them opens into multiple secret rooms. We meet the Chain Gun
Venom Soldier for the first time. Previously, all Venom Soldiers had used
a flame thrower. You'll encounter two of each, and in tight quarters where
you can't just blast them from a distance. Expect to lose some Health and
Armor fighting both the Venom Soldiers, and the two Machine Gunners 
who guard the Blue Key.

Make sure you have acquired the Bronze Key before venturing past any 
locked doors. There is a very real possibility of being locked within an area
from which there is no way out. 

I recommend that you clear the first few Soldiers behind the door at your far 
right as you exit the elevator, then proceed through that area only after you 
have cleared every other area first. 

Most of the Secrets on this floor are Treasure, (though the polysecret area has
some of everything). If you're going for a Treasure bonus, and have 100% of
the Secrets, but 90% + of Treasure, go back and look for Pills. There are 3 
or 4 of them. 

Using multiple saving, I completed this floor without my Health falling below
100%. This will be helpful in knowing where to find the Armor reserves.

* I think that each of the secret rooms in the multiple push wall count
separately in the total Secrets for the floor. There are 5-7 unique Secret
areas, but the actual number of Secrets may be on the order of 9-11 or
10-12. 

8. On floor 8, you'll encounter your first Boss, Sgt. Gunther. He moves
quickly, and will change his location significantly, if you let him. You'll 
want to have full Armor when you meet him face to face. 

Expect to be beaten up pretty badly on this floor, near the end in particular.
Make sure that you have at least 400 rounds of ammo with you at all times.
You don't want to face a Boss with just your Knife!

I found five Secrets on this floor, and that's probably all of them, but you
can't tell from the floor ending art, as it's a 15,000 point bonus for ending
the sorry existence of the good Seargent. The Secrets are worth the time
to seek, as you'll obtain your fifth weapon in one of the hidden caches,
The Silenced Sten. You won't want to attempt floor 10 without The Silenced
Sten, so don't leave this floor without it! It resembles The MP40 Machine
Gun, but without the barrel.

It may be wise to wait until you have killed Sgt. Gunther before looking for 
Secrets. I didn't do this, and found myself with a large number of Soldiers,
not to mention the Boss, attacking me from both front and rear flanks. After
numerous attempts, I was able to resolve this dilemma by first attacking into
the doorway of The Sgt.'s location, then retreating to the rear, to deal with the

outpouring of Soldiers alerted to my presence by the nearby gunfire.

Don't go through a locked door to take out the Alarm Box unless you already
have the the Sgt.'s Key, or you won't get out.

The final approach to the elevator has a corridor lined with Infantry Men and 
a Machine Gunner on either side. You'll have to shoot at them through the 
columns which divide the area into three parts, with you in the middle. Doors
can be seen behind them, but I think they're just window dressing. If you're
not concerned with an All-Kill on this floor, you can try running up the middle
of the corridor to the door at the far end, instead of engaging these foes. You'll

find some Health to top you up beyond that door at the end of the corridor.

9. There are 4 Keys on floor 9, and you'll need to find them in the proper
sequence. I started from my far left as I exited the elevator, and worked my
way through each area in a counterclockwise direction. 

There are a few areas in particular where you'll want to use either The Knife,
or The Silenced Sten. The washroom is one of them, and there are two 
corridors with offices on either side, where gunshot from one of the Officers
will alert Officers in other adjacent rooms. 

You'll be using The Chain Gun most of the rest of the time.

Watch out for the Land Mines in the room that's filled with light green and 
wooden barrels. There are no Secrets in that room. Navigate carefully; each
triggered mine will cost you 12% Health.

10.  Floor 10 is unusual in a number of ways. There is more extra Ammo than
you're likely to use in the entire game. There are a number of locked doors
for which there are no Keys. If you aren't stealthy, you may skirmish with
Infantry Men who are impervious to The Chain Gun!

On either side of your elevator, there is a locked door for which there is no
Key.

Across from the elevator, there is a room with two entrances from the hallway.
Inside, you'll have to battle a number of Soldiers, and five Chain Gun Venom
Soldiers. If you're not playing for points, you can bypass this section, as there

is a lot of Treasure, but there are no keys.

To the left of these rooms, (relative to the elevator), there is a corridor with

gray and brown blocks next to the walls, and four SS Soldiers inside.
You must kill them WITHOUT ALLOWING THEM TO TAKE A SHOT AT YOU,
even a shot that does not hit you. The best way is to lure them to the 
doorway, and dispatch them with The Knife. You may be able to kill the last
one or two with The Silenced Sten.

If they succeed in shooting at you, however, multiple guards will attack you
from the rear, through one of the permalocked doors beside the elevator.

Assuming that you can silently kill these four SS Men, You'll find a door at the

end of the corridor. Behind it is a Guard, standing beside a pole with an Alarm
Box. Two shots from The Silenced Sten should be enough to kill the Guard and 
destroy the Alarm Box. If the Guard has time to shoot or shout, many soldiers 
will emerge from the room at your immediate left, and they are IMPERVIOUS 
to The Chain Gun!!! Really, they just don't die, no matter how many times you
hit them, at any range. If these indestructible Infantry Men aren't alerted, you

won't see them again, (nor the Soldiers from behind the permalocked doors),
and you can still achieve 100% Kill. 

Straight ahead, there are two doors, each of which leads to a chamber where
you will encounter three Guards, and Officers in each of two offices. One of
the Officers guards the Bronze Key, which you'll need to open the door at the
far left of the hallway, relative to the elevator. You MUST KILL ALL FIVE of 
these soldiers WITH YOUR SILENCED STEN, and before any one of them can
take a shot at you, or you will have to face the Soldiers Who Will Not Die.

To your right from the Alarm Box, you will find a small Ammo room, with
some Guns. You may encounter the indestructible Infantry Men if you go
there before obtaining the Bronze Key.

At the far right of the opening hallway, you'll find an Ammo room, and 
beyond it, a large gray and brown stone block maze. There is more than 
enough of everything you need in this maze, (Health, Ammo, Armor), and a 
lot of enemies, including a Machine Gunner and a Venom Soldier with a 
flame thrower. 

There are 14 Secrets on this floor, (multiple secret rooms connected by
additional push walls count as separate Secrets). At least 10 of them are in the 

gray and brown stone block maze, including the Secret Elevator to floor 21,
which is well guarded by a Venom Soldier.

If you don't plan to play the secret floor 21, skip past the following sections, 
to
the notes on floor 11. The saved game files have been saved on floor 10 at each
of the regular and secret elevators.

21. Floor 21 has an elevator to floor 11, and a Vortex to the Super Secret Floor. 

There are two Secrets on this floor, (if you count multiple push walls as one 
Secret), one of which is in the place you'd least expect it. You'll need to find

that Secret, if you have any desire to play floor 22. The second set of push
walls will lock you into the final area, where you'll have to find the Silver Key

to advance to the Vortex; otherwise your game will be over.

If you have pushed the stone that locks in the area, do not attempt to escape
back through the locked door before the block has moved into place, or you 
will be stuck in a limbo area, and your game will be over.

If you're going for the Super Secret Floor, be prepared to encounter a lot of
Ghosts. You'll also meet up with many Ghosts and a Demon on the Super
Secret Floor, so go with the regular elevator on floor 21 if you don't care
about points, and you don't want to fight ghosts and Demons. You will only
battle Ghosts if you go into the locked-in area.

In the locked-in area, the sequence in which you enter the rooms is very
important. You must go to the right, as you pass through the first locked door.
In the second room, (second door after the locked door, going right), you will
find three Ghosts, and three doors.

One of the doors is on the same side of the wall where you enter. It contains
Treasure and barrel obstacles. 

The other two doors are connected through a Treasure room and an ante room. 
If you go through the first door, relative to the entry door, you will go down a 

hallway, with one dead Infantry Man, and the 16 rounds for his MP40. To
your right, at the end of the hall, there is a Treasure room, and from the 
Treasure room, you can enter the ante room. 

If you go through the second door, there will not be a dead Soldier in the
hallway, at the end of which there will be a door to the ante room. To the
left in the ante room, (to the right, if you went in through the first door),
there is a door to another Treasure room, in which you will find the Silver
Key. At minimum, you need the Silver Key to advance to floor 22. It's up to
you whether you want any of the Treasure.

When you have the Silver Key, you'll need to return to the locked door from
which you entered the Ghosts' area, and take the left fork.

There's an MP40 next to the body of a dead Infantry Man in the first room to
the left, (all Soldiers in the locked-in area are dead; you only face Ghosts). 
You then have to find the black passage in the second room following to get 
to the Vortex. 

A couple of Ghosts will be blocking your path. Touching the Vortex completes
floor 21, and brings you to the Super Secret Floor. You get a 15,000 point
bonus for completing the floor at either of the elevator or the Vortex.

Ghosts can kill you, and they can rematerialize after being shot. You do not 
get any points for killing one. They can drain a lot of your Ammo, if you let
them.

22. This floor contains a Demon, a lot of Ghosts, and a lot of Secrets, many of 

which contain Treasure.

The perimeter is mostly made up of blocks that are blue, with a red and yellow
lightning design. Some of the perimeter blocks are black, with red and yellow 
lightning. Behind all but one of the black perimeter blocks is a secret room.
In a couple of cases, the Secret amounts to a shortcut to another part of the
perimeter. Behind most of them, however, there are useful items: Treasure,
Ammo, Armor and Health, all in abundance. 

Before you go Treasure hunting, though, you'll want to slay the Demon. That's
a tall order, because you must contend with the constantly rematerializing 
Ghosts, while evading the Demon's death rays, and launching counterattacks
against him. 

You may well use up 350 rounds before the Demon dies. Unlike some addons, 
the Ghosts continue to regenerate, even after the Demon has been slain. 

Once you smite the Demon, you'll be able to leisurely collect the Treasure,
and top up your Health, Ammo, and Armor, fending off some ghosts along 
the way. The floor ends when you touch the Demon's remains. After collecting
your 15,000 point bonus, you will be teleported to the start of floor 11.

11. There's a lot to like about floor 11. Certain sections are very challenging.


You'll meet a new enemy, the Infantry Man with a shoulder-mounted rocket
launcher. Unfortunately, you can't pick up this weapon when you kill him. 
He's deadly, particularly at close range, but he dies as easily as any green
uniformed Soldier, be they Guard or Infantry. 

There are four Secrets on this floor, three of which can be found before you
get your first Key. This doesn't include the eight Infantry Men hiding behind
bushes in a forested area, but more about them later. 

As you exit the elevator to start this floor, check your walls for a Secret. Next 

you'll go through a door and down a hallway, with a left turn. The door at the
end of the hallway will lead to a small ante room with three doors. Note that 
you will be entering a Stealth area, so clear the room to your right first, and
don't allow any audible gunfire, neither from you, nor from them. The Guards
in the room to the left will not react to gun shots in the right hand room, 
but the ones in the right hand room will react to rounds fired in the left room.


There will be four or five SS Officers in the room to your right, but you only
see only one body in the "end 11" saved game, as I killed all of them with
The Knife, luring them out, one at a time. 

In the room to the left, you'll find sleeping quarters, a washroom, and an
Ammo depot. There are two Secrets to be found by turning left in the ante
room, one of which is a Pill, which you might want to save for later, but 
don't forget it's there, if you're playing for Treasure bonus. You'll also find
the Gold Key, to let you through the middle door. 

At the end of the sleeping quarters, you will be in another Stealth area, so rely 

on your Knife or Silenced Sten, and kill them before they can shoot, or you
will be facing multiple enemies from multiple directions. 

Behind the middle door, directly opposite where you enter the ante room, is 
Chain Gun territory. It's hard to tell how many Soldiers are behind this door; 
my guess is around 15-20, at least two of whom can launch rockets. Were it
not for these Infantry Men, I would have tried to kill all of them in the 
doorway with The Knife, but that's just me. 

When you've negotiated the opening salvo, you'll see a locked door to your
left, and a second one directly in front of you, across a long room. To your 
right is a door which does not require a Key. 

Beyond the right hand door, you'll find another Stealth area, containing two 
guards in the corridor, and four doors on each side, after you make a 
right-hand turn. You'll also find the fourth, and last, Secret in this area, and

the only Treasure worth any points, other than the 10,000 point bonus for 
100% found. You can't allow any shots in this area, possibly not even The
Silenced Sten, unless you're in the process of clearing the last room or two. 
Note that the fourth room on the right contains an Alarm Box, and you'll
find the Blue Key, (heavily guarded), in the fourth room on the left. 

The Blue Key will open the left side locked door, (directly opposite you, as 
you exit this Stealth area with your Key and loot. 

The left side contains three forested sections, the last of which contains Eight 

Infantry Men hiding behind shrubs, two Venom Soldiers with Flame Throwers, 
and a Panzer Tank, this time guarding the Bronze Key.

This is a Stealth area, so you'll have to once again find and kill these eight
hidden enemies without any audible gunfire. I used the knife, but The 
Silenced Sten might work, as well. If you shoot before clearing all of these
hidden soldiers, you may well be simultaneously facing a Venom Soldier 
and a Panzer Tank from the front, and Infantry Men from all around you.

You will encounter a Panzer Tank in each of the second and third forested
areas.

Unlike the initial Panzer on floor 4, these two are highly mobile, and you may 
have to chase them through patches of forest to get some good shots. You'll be 
happy to know that they are pursuing you at the same time.

When demolished, Panzer Tanks are not solid objects, so you can test 
perimeter behind them for secrets. So far, they have not appeared in 
proximity to any Secrets.

Watch out for the small black Land Mines in the forested areas. There are not 
always Gefahr/Danger signs in mined areas. You will not find any Infantry
lurking in the foliage near Mines.

The Bronze Key will open the last locked door, directly opposite of where you 
iced the 15-20 Soldiers earlier on. There are five more Venom Soldiers with 
Chain Guns to overcome. 

One of the Venom Soldiers is just past a small room, and he'll cut you up
pretty good if you try to kill him toe-to-toe in close quarters. I found it useful

to open the door to the small room, let it close, then open it again, before
advancing. I was able to get off a few shots with The Chain Gun, just enough
to make him back off a bit, then withdraw back through the open door, out 
of the small room. This makes him angry enough to come after you, where 
you can take him out much more easily from a distance, and with the corner
of a wall for cover.

12. Floor 12 is the second Boss floor, (the third, if you offed the Demon on
Super Secret Floor 22). This time, you'll lock horns with Krazy Kurtz, who is,
for all intents and purposes, Barnacle Bill with a rocket launcher. Make him
dead to gain the one and only Key on this floor, (Gold). 

There are seven Secrets on this floor, (unless I didn't find them all; this is a 

15,000 bonus floor for killing Kurtz). There are  six unique Secrets and one
multipart Secret. None of the Secrets are in the inner saw-toothed perimeter.

When you see three doors in a row in the inner area, you will be in a Stealth
section of the maze. 

Note that there are three areas where you will find multiple elevators, 
including the beginning of the floor. Treat these elevators as part of the
perimeter, when looking for secrets. At this point, you should never assume
that the exit elevator will be unguarded.

I managed to complete this floor without any loss of Health or Armor, so all of
the supplements are still strewn about the maze. I killed Krazy Kurtz by 
staying in the doorway to his lair, pounding him with The Chain Gun in
medium length bursts, and evading his rockets by withdrawing through the
door.

You'll also find two Chain Gun Viper Soldiers in the hallway, but they'll be
far enough away from you that they shouldn't pose the same sort of threat
that they would in closer quarters.

13. There are some very challenging, and some really fun, parts on floor 13.
Your weapon on choice, for the most part, ought to be The Silenced Sten, 
but the urge to blast away with The Chain Gun might be too hard to resist. 

There are three Secrets on this floor, two of which are very close to each other.

 
Through the first door after the elevator, you'll discover five Infantry Men.
Pillars near the door do not give you a good angle for Knife fighting. I'd call 

this a semi-Stealth area, as it is possible to lure a couple of them to the
doorway, before using gunfire to dispatch the last three. If you come in 
blazing, all five will shoot at you, and from both your right and your left.

You'll need to acquire the three Keys in the following order: Gold, Bronze,
Blue.

Turn right through the first battle site.

Beyond the next door is a corridor with three doors.

Behind one door is a Health room, and behind another, you'll find a number
of assorted Guns. there's a secret between The Chain Gun and The MP40, a 
Silenced Sten. 

Behind the third door, you'll find two Guards, and rooms on your right and 
left near the back. Behind the right hand door, with the red bricks, you'll 
have to tackle several SS Soldiers and the flame-throwing Viper Soldier to
win the Gold Key.

Going left from the first battle site, now that you've gained the Gold Key, 
you'll come into a hallway containing two Soldiers. There's a minimally 
guarded Health room to your left as you enter, and a large, heavily populated
room on your right.

This large room is a good opportunity for you to show your skill with The
Chain Gun. There's a lot of Nazi meat to fry, but most of them are a long 
distance from you, but the Guns they drop will more than make up for the
rounds used to mow them down. 

Across the hall from where you enter this room is the locked door for which
the Gold Key is required. Following is a room with two SS Soldiers. It's a 
Stealth situation, as one of the SS will come towards you if you catch his 
attention, but the other one will hang back, unless he hears gunfire. These 
two SS Soldiers guard the library, in which you will acquire the Bronze Key.

The library is the first area where the urge to use your Chain Gun may cloud
your judgment, as The Silenced Sten is by far the better choice. If you enjoy
firing wildly with diminished Health, by all means, use The Chain Gun. It's
more fun, but less efficient. 

There are two doors to the library. I took out the SS Officer at the far right
with The Sten, then exited and moved to the other door. I went down the left
side, clearing each row in turn. The Bronze Key is in the opposite corner from
the left door. Watch out for a couple of additional Officers when you think the
room has been cleared. There are no Secrets in the library.

Exiting back to the main room, you will find the locked door for the Bronze
Key in the middle. There are a ton of Soldiers behind the door, too many to 
engage in a firefight from the doorway. I first shot one of the SS Soldiers near

the pillars to the left when entering the Bronze Key area. This lured out the 
first group, who could be killed en masse as they came out the door. Peeking
in through the door and retreating drew out another group. I had to go a bit
farther into the room to gain the attention of a third group. After this, there
were two more SS Soldier stragglers near the pillars left. Your results may
vary, depending on how you enter and work this room. 

You'll find the Blue Key in this room, after you kill them all.

The Blue Key will unlock the third locked door, at the end of the main room
at right. Press the swastika on your left in the ante room to find a generous
treasure room, including two Pills. 

The Blue Key locked door opens and SS Officer's office. behind him, the push
wall in his book case will lead you to the final rooms before the elevator to 
floor 14.

Beyond the first door following the secret passage, you'll find a large area with

multiple officers standing by their desks. Good sense should tell you not to use

The Knife, and if you chose to use The Chain Gun, you'll be duking it out with
a large number of angry Officers. Using The Silenced Sten, you can pick them
off, one at a time, with well aimed shots from close range. If your aim is off, 

though, they'll start firing at you, as will any of the others that you haven't 

killed yet. Finish off the last of them with The Knife, if you crave a little
danger.

There are two more Infantry Men to beat before you get arrive at the 
unguarded elevator to floor 14.

14. Floor 14 is the most challenging floor to date in Operation: Heimzalung.
To begin with, seven Infantry Men must be terminated with extreme 
prejudice in the area surrounding the elevator. Start this floor with The
Chain Gun or The Silenced Sten.

You'll find one of the six Secrets in the elevator area.

In the elevator, you'll find two doors, one of which is locked, (you'll need to
find the Gold Key to open this door), and the second, directly opposite the 
elevator.

Advancing through this first unlocked door, you'll reach a Stealth area, where
there is an Alarm Box two turns to the left from the entrance to the main 
room. You'll first have to confront several Guards in the hallways. I was 
successful in luring four of them out to the elevator area to die by Knife 
thrusts. I then switched to The Silenced Sten until I had cleared the entire 
area, hallways and rooms, with the exception of the locked door areas.

As is my usual custom in all Wolfenstein 3D games, when given the option 
of a left or right turn at a junction, I always try the right turn first, so I 
cleared most of the rooms and hallway before the Alarm Box and the last 
two hallway Guards were taken out of commission. Be sure to quickly switch
to The Chain Gun if any of the hallway Guards and Infantry Men manage to
shoot at you. Note that, in some Stealth areas, Soldiers in other rooms will be
made aware of your presence only if a door is open while shots are fired.
If you enter a room covertly, and dispatch a standing Guard or Officer, you
may be able to switch to The Chain Gun, without worrying about an attack 
from behind, or from multiple locations, provided that the door behind you
has closed before you chop them down with the 'Arnold' gun.

In this first area after the elevator, you'll find four of the six Secrets within

the various rooms. There are no Secrets in the hallway perimeter itself. The
last Secret is in the Bronze Key area, which you won't be able to explore until
the floor is nearly completed.

You'll find the Gold Key heavily guarded in one of the complex of rooms 
adjacent to the Alarm Box. The Gold Key opens the locked door in the 
elevator area.

The Gold Key area is another place where the smart choice of weapons is The
Silenced Sten, but the fun choice is the Chain Gun. If you use The Sten, you
will systematically drop your enemies with precision shots in an orderly and
logical pattern. If you're a Chain Gun guy or gal, you'll be moving pell-mell in

no prescribed direction, firing wildly in any and all directions, and hoping to
have at least one Health point when the carnage ends. It's up to you which
kind of B.J. you want to be in this challenging area.

I chose the systematic approach, first popping the Guard at far left, then
circling in a counterclockwise direction to the right, around the six blue 
rooms, and not going through the door at upper right, nor the two doors on
the far right gray wall, until after I had cleared the six blue rooms. I had to 

use The Sten on seven Soldiers in the hallways around the blue rooms, a 
combination of Guards, Infantry Men, and a couple of SS Soldiers.

I then started in the right corner of the blue rooms, and worked my way left,
from the top room down, in each case. 

The upper right blue room has three guards in the first room; good Knife
fodder. The next room down has four Officers, who were faster and smarter,
but still met their end from the steel tooth. The Sten might be as effective 
on these Officers, but there's a greater chance that they can fire a shot before

you can kill them all, and that will activate the Alarm Box.

In the room at middle-top, one SS Soldier guards an Ammo room. At 
bottom-middle, you'll have to overcome two Infantry Men and an Officer,
before they can activate the Alarm Box. You might also chose this one as the
first or last blue room to clear. 

Across the hall from the Alarm Box room, lower left from the perspective of 
the Gold Key entrance, is a Health room with a single guard.

At upper left top, you'll find one SS Officer and two SS Soldiers.

Of the four rooms in the perimeter, you'll find two SS Soldiers and two 
Officers in the room to your right as you enter the Gold Key area. The room 
at your left, around the small corner, has a single Officer within. 

Moving left, to the two doors on the left side wall, there's one SS Soldier in 
the upper room, and a flame-throwing Viper Soldier, guarding the Blue Key, 
in the lower room. I found the back hallway below the room at lower left to 
be a good place from which to attack him with the Chain Gun. The distance 
was close enough to deliver efficient damage, and there was a perpendicular
corner for cover when he discharged his flames. 

Viper Soldiers do not leave their rooms during alarms.

The Blue Key opens the locked door to the forested area, directly across from
the opening elevator.

The initial forested area requires Stealth. Although there are no Soldiers
hiding within shrubbery, there are eleven Soldiers patrolling the woods, as
well as two Chain Gun Venom Soldiers, one in the midst of the Health depot
on your right, as you enter the forest, and the other in the middle top, if you
go clear the forest before or after slaying the Chain Gun Venom Soldier near
the Health depot, who guards the door to the additional wooded areas. 

Don't save your game too quickly after killing the Chain Gun Venom Soldier
near the Health Depot, as an Infantry Man may approach you from behind 
and to your left, if you have not first cleared the main part of this initial
forest.

There are no Secrets in the forested parts of this floor, but there are several 

Ammo boxes, and some Armor. There isn't a lot of additional Armor on this
floor, so don't be too quick to grab a Flak Jacket to top yourself up to 100%
from 85, but don't enter the latter parts of the forest unarmored, either, if 
you plan to live. 

Behind the Chain Gun Venom Soldier who guards the Health depot at right,
there is a small building that leads to two more forested areas. 

You'll have to get by four Guards to reach the second and third forested areas. 

through the left door, there's a single Guard, as well as a Health box and a Flak

Jacket. To the right, before you can win the Bronze key, you'll be up against
not one, but two Panzer Tanks, two Chain Gun Venom Soldiers, and too many 
Infantry Men to count. There are several Ammo Boxes in the approach to the
enemy horde. Be sure to top up if you have less than about 300 rounds. 

The first Panzer Tank is hidden from view on your left. It will not emerge until

you can see it, moving right after the forest path. You can draw most, if not
all, of the Infantry Men towards you, and mow them down with The Chain 
Gun as they come at you through the forest path. 

You'll want to battle the Panzer Tanks before the Chain Gun Venom Soldiers,
or you will have major firepower coming at you from two different sources. 
I lured each of the two Panzer Tanks towards me, through the forest path, 
firing multiple rounds at intervals before any rockets could be launched at me,
(or before I could round a corner in the path to evade a rocket). If you look at

the 'end 14' saved game file, you'll see that one of the Panzer Tanks came 
completely through the room with the four Guards before I destroyed it in 
the Health depot. If you shoot accurately, and are good at evasive maneuvers,
it is possible to defeat both Panzer Tanks with no loss of Health or Ammo.

While you are battling the Panzer Tanks, the first Chain Gun Venom Soldier 
will be advancing. You might encounter him just outside the forest path, 
perhaps hidden to your right. You'll see the Bronze Key before you see the 
second Chain Gun Venom Soldier in this forested area. Approach him from 
the left, to catch his attention, then withdraw to maximum distance to take
him out with The Chain Gun. The extra rounds used to kill him from afar 
will be replenished when you pick up his Chain Gun.

The Bronze Key opens the locked door to your immediate left when moving 
from the elevator area to the first Alarm Box area. You'll find the last Secret, 

a Pill, before you encounter your next enemy.

In the foyer of the Bronze Key area, there are doors to your left and to your
right. There is nothing through the left hand door. To the right, there is a 
corridor with seven doors, (eight, including the door from which you enter).
This is a Stealth area, although I'm not sure if Soldiers will emerge from doors

other than the second door from the top on the left side, if you first allow any

one of the three Infantry Men to fire upon you. 

I started at the first door on the right, (the second right side door in the room), 

and cleared the rooms in counterclockwise direction.

In the first room, there was one Officer and some Treasure. 

You'll need a lot of Stealth when entering the next room, and those connected 
through to it through the door at the far left. First whack the Guards silently,

with Knife or Sten. At the back of the room, you'll find some Armor to your
right, and to the left, there's a grouping of three rooms, one of which contains

the Silver Key.

If you're playing for time, or not concerned with bonus points, you won't have
to open the next four doors. For everyone else, Use The Sten to bring down the
three SS Officers in the last room on the right. Stealth is not required, if the

door to the room is closed when shots are fired.

On the other side of the hallway, the first two doors are for one room. You 
can use The Silenced Sten to down the two Officers in the room, then turn to
your right to flatten the third Officer as he leaves the washroom.

The next room over, (second from the top), contains two SS Officers. I know 
that at least one of them will emerge if they hear shots in the corridor, or from

an open door. 
In the upper left hand room, there is a Pill, but there's also a sniper firing at 

you from behind a pillar. I recommend that you deal with this room last, and 
fire at the sniper in short bursts from just around the corner on the right-hand

side. You'll need to kill the sniper and take the Pill if you want the Kill and 

Treasure bonus points. 

The Silver Key opens the locked door directly opposite from the first Alarm
Box. You'll find a room with Health, Ammo, and a Chain Gun on your right, 
and the elevator to floor 15, guarded by the flame-throwing Venom Soldier, 
at the end of the hall.

15. Floor 15 is an odd one that can be played quickly, if you know what to do
in advance. 

On exiting the elevator, you'll find an Ammo and Health room, followed by a 
door which leads to a series of four push walls, which gradually lock you in 
closer to the locked door. A push wall just to the left of the door reveals the 

Silver Key to give you entry to the first locked area. 

You MUST be at your Stealthy best here, or you will die.

There are three Guards and three SS Soldiers within the corridors. You
MUST kill all of them with The Silenced Sten, or you will die. 

There is one door that's not locked, the third on your right, as you enter the
hallway with the Silver Key. You MUST STEALTHILY kill one SS Soldier in
the corridor, two more in the room to your right, and an Officer in the 
adjoining office, or you will die. The Silenced Sten is your best choice here,
but the more adventurous among you may also succeed with The Knife, 
for any or all of these Soldiers. 

The Officer holds the Blue Key, and behind him is the only Secret, (other 
than the initial push walls), a Pill.

The Blue Key opens the single locked door farthest from the entry door. 
Inside are two elevators. The left is the elevator to floor 16. The right 
contains a Chain Gun Venom Soldier. If you chose to fight the Venom 
Soldier for 100% Kill, you MUST kill him within the confines of the ante
room between the two elevators, or you will die.

If any Soldier other than the Venom Soldier, shoots at you, (or maybe, if  
any of them hits you), Infantry Men Who Will Not Die will pour out of all 
of the locked doors, and you will die. 

16. Floor 16 is the third Boss floor, (the third, if you fought the Demon on 
floor 22). This time it's Gertrude Grosse, who packs rocket launchers in each
hand.

As you emerge from the elevator, you'll find a room with three doors. To your
right is a room with Guns and Ammo, plus a Secret. There's a Health room on
your left. Behind the middle door are two SS Soldiers in an ante room. This is
not a Stealth area, so feel free to use the weapon of your choice on these
enemies. 

There's a locked door to your left, and doors in front of you, and to the left.
Behind the middle door, the SS are having a banquet, so you'll want to first
clear the hallway behind the left side door, then use the left doorway as your
shooting location as the horde of SS pour out the door, seeking you. Watch
out for up to four Soldiers who will remain in the room until you go in to 
retrieve weapons.

In the back of the room, you'll find the second Secret, and the only Treasure 
on this floor. 

Go through the left hand door, and turn right. The first room has many 
Soldiers, the second of whom will have a shoulder-mounted rocket launcher. 
There are also a lot of SS Soldiers and Officers in this room. When you clear 
it, there are no Keys or Treasure, but in the connecting red brick room, you 
will find a Steel Vest.

Going left at the corridor junction, the first room contains three Guards, one
of whom is in the washroom.

Moving farther left to the end of the corridor, there's one SS Soldier in the 
small room without a door, and the door leading to the first forest.

Don't bother with the two doors at the far right of the corridor. You'll need to

acquire the Blue Key in the first forest before you can make any headway in
that direction.

In the first forest, you'll have to face several Infantry Men, (one with a 
shoulder-mounted rocket launcher), two Machine Gunners, and four Venom
Soldiers, (two of each).

One of the Machine Gunners is just to the left, if you go up the path directly
opposite the shrub that's against the pillared wall. I attacked him from farther

to the right, and after wearing him down from a distance, moved up the
middle path to finish him off from closer range.

One of the Chain Gun Venom Soldiers is with the rocket launching Infantry
Man and the second Machine Gunner. Take out the Infantry Man first, then
the Gunner. The Chain Gun Venom Soldier will come to you when you 
advance. I think he hides around the corner on your left. Use the corners of 
the pathway for cover with these three enemies.  

You'll see a Panzer Tank in these woods, but don't waste Ammo shooting at it:
it's unmanned. The Blue Key is nearby.


In the upper left area of this forest, a flame-throwing Venom Soldier will be
guarding some Health, Ammo, and a Flak Jacket. 

There are no secrets in either of the forests, but there are a lot of Health 
Chests and Ammo Boxes, but very little Armor. 

Proceed to the end of the hall next to the forest to use the Blue Key. Through 
the locked doors, you'll find a Health and Ammo room, and across from it, a
large room containing several Soldiers, seven unmanned Panzer Tanks, and
three Panzer Tanks that are very much active, and out for your blood. I 
delivered some damage to the first Panzer Tank as I withdrew from the Blue
Key area. I took cover in the first room to the right from the hallway junction, 

and blasted the tanks from the doorway, ducking inside when they launched
their rockets, and emerging again after I saw the smoke trail pass the doorway.
The last one got pretty close to me before I blew it to bits. 

These Soldiers and Panzer Tanks were guarding the Bronze Key, which you'll
find in the tank room after defeating the third Panzer Tank. The two locked
doors behind the inert tanks can't be opened; there's no Silver Key on this
floor. 

The Bronze Key opens the door on your right in the ante room just outside 
the elevator, at the beginning of the floor. You'll want to top up your Health, 

Ammo, and Armor, if necessary, before entering the Bronze Key area.

Use your Sten to silence the seven curious Soldiers at the junction, in front of

you as you enter the Bronze Key area. Don't turn left, or you'll be in the sights

Of two Machine Gunners and an Officer. The MG42 has longer range than 
your Chain Gun here, (you can be hit by Machine Gunners at the doorway
into the room on the right side, if you approach the door from below, instead
of from above. 

You'll have to go through the second forest to get the Machine Gunners from
the rear. If you aren't playing for 100% Kill, you won't have to fight them at
all. 

Standing in your way in the second forest are several Soldiers, two Chain
Gun Venom Soldiers, a Machine Gunner, and a Panzer Tank. 

Watch for an SS Soldier following you to the forest entrance from the room
behind you, if you didn't first clear it from the right. 

Your first challenge in the second forest is another Machine Gunner.  I was 
successful in quickly crossing in front from left to right, advancing closer 
along the tree line to closer range, and firing at him in bursts from the left,
with forest cover on my right. You should dispatch the Machine Gunner 
before confronting the Chain Gun Venom Soldier, who'll be hiding to your left,
near the Machine Gunner's nest. 

Tread carefully through the Mine Field and prepare for a showdown with the
rocket launching Infantry Man and his friends, and two Venom Soldiers,
one of each. Get the launcher, the other Soldiers, and the flame-throwing
Viper Soldier first. Fire at the Chain Gun Venom Soldier in bursts as you
retreat, drawing him towards you, but don't make a wrong turn, or you'll hit
a Mine.

Be prepared to retreat towards the Mine Field again, when you do battle with
a Panzer Tank.

There are no Keys, Secrets, nor Treasure in the second forest, but you must 
traverse it to use your Keys once more. 

If you survive the Panzer Tank's assault, you can exit the forest, and re-enter
behind the two hallway Machine Gunners that you left alone before entering
the second forest, behind two doors on your left. Leave them alone if you 
don't care about 100% Kill, but if you do want to kill them, I suggest that you
shoot both from the first door, closest to the forest, starting with the one in 

front of you. 

You get a better shooting angle on the second one. The door itself act as a 
good screen against the first Gunner.

The Door at left leads to an arsenal with a room full of each gun except the
Silenced Sten, but there are two of them as the last Secret, in the MP40 room.
You'll also find Health and Armor reserves in abundance. Be sure to have
all vitals at full capacity before going through the middle door to confront
Gertrude Grosse, she of the dual launchers. 

She's at the end of the right side corridor. This is a semi-Stealth area, so if you 

engage her where she stands, you'll also have to fight assorted Soldiers
emerging from the some of the three doors on each side. If you stay in this
area, she will pursue you, and it's unlikely that you will be able to inflict 
sufficient damage to be the first of you to kill the other. This is one tough 
fra!

If you deliver some initial firepower, dodging two rockets at a time, then 
withdraw back through the door, the Soldiers will return to their rooms, 
and Gertrude will hide in the second room on your right. 

While she's in the second room on the right, you are able to clear the first 
rooms on either side. Don't try to get the Officer across the hall from her just 

yet, or she will emerge opposite you, and you'll have no chance to survive, at 
such close range.

Open the door to the room she's in, fire enough shots with the Chain Gun to 
make her good and angry, then withdraw again down the hall to the previous
ante room. 

When you return, she'll have moved up to the first room on your right. Make
her angry again, then draw her out of the room, and retreat. Entice her to 
follow you down the hallway towards the ante room. Inflict some pain as she 
advances, but be sure to use the wall to the right of the doorway as cover 
when she launches pairs of rockets at you. 

If you have registered enough hits, you should be able to finish her off in or
around the entrance to the arsenal. Take a moment to top up on Health and 
Armor, if needed, during your withdrawals to the ante room and arsenal area. 
You can take the Gold Key from what's left of Gertrude, and use it to go 
through the locked door at the end of the hall, to the elevator.

If you are playing for 100% Kill, other than clearing the three remaining 
rooms in this area, you'll have to go back through the second forest, and clear
the room that you couldn't get at earlier, the one on the left, just in front of 

the two hallway Machine Gunners.

17. After the ordeal that was floor 16, you'll almost think that you're playing
at the 'Can I Play Too, Daddy?' setting when you face the obstacles on floor 
17. There's only one baddie with firepower greater than an MP40, and you 
won't meet him until you have all four Keys. 

As you exit the elevator, you'll find a large Cross-shaped hallway, with a locked

door at the end of each corridor. There are twelve doors, (thirteen, counting 
the entrance). Before doing any exploring, however, you'll want to clear the 
halls of all the Infantry Men and SS awaiting you with baited breath. 

This is a Stealth area, and its' size precludes the use of The Knife, so it's 
Silenced Sten territory. 

Begin with the Infantry Man to your left as you enter the hall. then let many 
of the others come to you. Watch out for two Infantry Men hiding in alcove 
corners on both your right and left, just before the junction of the four 
corridors. The rest of the Soldiers guarding the hall are near the locked doors, 

so you shouldn't have too much trouble taking them out from near the center 
of the hall, but go around each corner a bit each time, so that you're not fired

upon from a Soldier in one of the other corridors. 

I cleared all rooms in a counterclockwise direction, starting from the room to
my immediate right as I exited the elevator area, without attempting to enter
any locked areas with Keys acquired en route, (using this method, you'll 
acquire the Gold Key before clearing all of the non locked rooms). 

The following describes the twelve rooms encountered while moving
to the right, from the elevator room:

Room 1: There is some Treasure, and some additional Treasure in Secret #1, 
behind the Hitler portrait.

Room 2: A complex of three door less rooms contains three SS Soldiers and
three SS Officers. Inside, you'll find some hot meals and the second Secret,
two Chalices.

Room 3: Locked Door #1.

Room 4: Health, Ammo, and a Flak Jacket. There aren't any Armor reserves
on this floor, so don't be too quick to pick up the Flak Jacket unless you need 

most or all of the 75% Armor increase. Keep in mind that you'll only be seeing
foes with conventional weaponry until you reach the Silver Key area, and a 
one man wrecking crew such as yourself shouldn't need much Armor against
mere Guns. 

Rooms 5 and 6: A series of three rooms connects room 5 to room 6, around 
the hallway corner. There is one Infantry Man in each of the first two rooms, 
and four Officers, (two Army, two SS), in the third room, (the first, if you 
enter through door 6 instead). 

Room 7: Locked door #2

Room 8: An officer holds the Gold Key, and the third Secret is on the back 
wall of his office. 

Room 9: Locked door #3

Rooms 10 and 11: There are two SS Officers and one SS Soldier inside. If 
Stealth is not your strong suit, this should be the first room you clear after 
making the hallway safe, before going to room 1 with the Treasure and 
Secret #1. 

Room 12: Locked Door #4. 

The Gold Key unlocks locked door #3. This is not a Stealth area, but you 
shouldn't need anything more powerful than The Silenced Sten The MP40
to off the five Infantry Men in the hallway. Some of the Infantry Men on your 
right may go in and out of doors, if you're too nonchalant about clearing the 
hallways. 

Secret #5 is behind the small Hitler portrait, directly across from you as you
enter the Gold Key area.  

Turning to the first room on your right, you'll find five Soldiers: an Infantry 

Man, two Officers, and two SS Officers. They're standing at attention, and easy
pickings for your Sten. Retiring the second SS Officer with The Knife can
add some excitement, if you have a little extra machismo. Secret #4, a Chain
Gun and Ammo box, is your reward for clearing this room. Treat yourself to
a hot or cold meal, if your health isn't what it ought to be.

Through an ante room, you'll find an Infantry Man and three guards, who 
shouldn't give you too much trouble.

Retrace your steps to the main hallway of the Gold Key area, and you'll find an
unguarded Treasure room to your left, (the second hallway door when circling
counterclockwise from right to left). The next door over is a washroom, from
which you will have a good shooting angle against the Six Soldiers inside the
next room, which has dual doors. You can draw four of the six out of the room, 
making them easy prey for The Silenced Sten while you await them from just
inside the washroom door. An SS Soldier on your left, and an Officer on your 
right, will not come out, so you'll have to go in after them. I recommend that 
you do the death thing to the SS Soldier first, entering from the first door
beside the washroom.

Beyond this room, there is corridor with six rooms, (seven doors, including 
the entry), guarded by a single SS Soldier. This is a semi-Stealth area, so kill 

him silently. You know the drill. Soldiers in other rooms will react to the 
sound of your gunfire, not their own.

Going counterclockwise from the entrance, the first room is an empty
washroom. You can use it for cover in killing the four SS Soldiers in the 
following room, but they can easily be dropped with The Sten, or with The
Knife, if you lure them to the doorway. 

The third, fourth, and fifth rooms each have one Officer inside. The Officer in 

the fourth room also holds the Blue Key. He's difficult to kill with The Knife,
but it's much too easy with The Sten.

The sixth room to your left as you entered, is a washroom. look for Secret #6 
here, a Pill. 

The Blue Key opens locked door #2. It's another semi-Stealth are. Do not use a
loud weapon, but they will not react to their own gunfire.

Use The Sten exclusively in this area. There are no Knife opportunities, as 
these Officers cannot be lured out unless they hear one of your shots. Some
of these Officers carry MP40s, so don't take them too lightly.

At the end of the hall, the Bronze Key is guarded by two Officers and two
Infantry Men. 

The Bronze Key opens locked door #1. There will be three Infantry Men 
looking forward to seeing you. This is not a Stealth area, so destroy them as 
you see fit. If you're trying to conserve Ammo, they can be lured to the 
doorway, and your waiting Knife.

On your left, as you approach the two doors, you'll find the final Secret behind

the large Hitler portrait. You'll want to open this Secret before proceeding to
the open the two doors at the end of the corridor. There are eleven soldiers 
waiting for you inside. One of the first three to emerge will be an Officer who
holds the Silver Key. You can lure as many as six out of the room. If you want
100% Kill, you'll have to go in the room to get the other five.

The Silver Key opens locked door #4, to your left as you exited the elevator 
area. in the first room, there are three Infantry Men and the Chain Gun Venom 
Soldier. This is your only real challenge on this floor, as it's difficult to get 
a 
good shooting angle for the Venom Solder, as the Silver Key door will close 
behind you, and you don't want to turn your back on a Venom Soldier, unless
he is very far away from you. Dispatch the Infantry Men first, from the 
hallway. 

To kill the Venom Soldier, I re-entered the room firing, (you shouldn't have to 

worry about expending Ammo; his Chain Gun should more than replenish 
your rounds), and kept him to my right. He will harm you, if you allow him to
move towards the center of the room, to have an unobstructed shot at you. 

You have two more Infantry Men to finish off, before advancing to the 
otherwise unguarded elevator to floor 18.

Be sure to take this opportunity to bring your vitals to maximum. If you've
suffered Armor damage, go back for the Flak Jacket near locked door #1, if 
you haven't needed to use it already.

You just know that, when you face a floor as relatively easy as this one, what
follows will be brutal.

18. Floor 18 has its' difficult moments, and you'll want to avoid direct
direct confrontations when possible, as Armor supplements are few, and far
between. 

Advance through the door to your right, and take out the two Infantry Men 
and the single Guard with the weapon of your choice. 

In the hall following, you'll find locked door #1 on your left, and another door 

on your right. Through the right hand door, you enter a semi-Stealth area, 
where an Infantry Man in the first room on your right will become curious, 
if he hears you firing at the lone Infantry Man guarding the corridor. He may
also emerge if you kill the corridor guard and withdraw to the previous hall. 

You'll find some Health, Armor, and Ammo reserves on your left, and two 
doors on your right, which open to a single room, containing three Guards. 
You'll want to open the second door first, and dispatch either the Guard in 
the middle, (slightly to your right), or the one around the corner to your left. 

Go back to the first door, and the other two will be easier to kill.

The door at the top of the corridor leads to a large room containing seven SS 
men, five Officers, and two Soldiers. The doorway on the right as you 
approach gives you a good shooting angle for the three or four of them that 
you can draw out of the room into the corridor. Watch out for the SS Soldier 
hidden from view, next to the wall left when entering. Use your Knife to 
aerate the last Officer, if you want to save a few rounds. Treat yourself to a 
Hot Meal, if you're hungry.

Beyond this room is a Stealth corridor, with one patrolling Infantry Man. If 
fired shots are heard, you'll have to deal with four Infantry Men sooner than
you'd like to, in the room at the far end of the corridor. You ought to be able 

to lure the corridor guard back to Knife range, but use The Silenced Sten if 
you're playing quickly. The vestibule to the door on your right provides good
cover when shooting at the four Infantry Men. 

You're still in a Stealth area, as you take the right hand door to the gray stone

area, where your first order of business is eliminating two Infantry Men. Any
fired shots will cause enemies on your left and right to emerge from their
alcoves, half way before the door at the end of this area. If you show your face

in the doorway on the left and withdraw, you can draw out the SS Soldier the 
left. This makes it much easier to kill the three Infantry Men on the left, 
without the threat of machine gun fire behind you. 

In the SS Soldier's alcove, you'll find a door leading to the forest.  Leave this 

area for the time being, and advance instead into the wood paneled room. 
Later in the maze, you'll find a second door to the forest, which will eventually 

link up with the one in the gray stone area. Hold off on clearing this forest, 
until you reach the Gold Key door at the other end.

The wood paneled area is guarded by five Infantry Men, but they're no match 
for your skill and cunning. This area is cross-shaped, with one door to your 
right, the second locked door across from you as you enter, and two doors on 
your left. 

Through the right hand door, you'll find one Guard, one Infantry Man, and two
Officers standing in your way. An additional Officer is hiding at right, in the 

gun and Armor room. Your prize for clearing this room is the Gold Key, which
will open the locked door at the top of the cross. Before you battle them, 
however, you'll first want to clear the left hand side, so you won't have to 
deal with shots from in front and from behind at the same time.

The two left-side doors open to the same room. One of the three Officers 
inside carries an MP40 Machine Gun. 

You enter a Stealth area when you pass through the Gold Key door. Six SS 
Soldiers are waiting for you, and many more will join the fray if they hear any
shots, yours or theirs. By opening the door, then withdrawing back into the 
wood paneled area, and around a corner, you can draw out at least three of the
SS Soldiers, sometimes all of them. 

There is an Officer in behind each of the doors to the left. They are reluctant 

to leave their rooms, but with the right coaxing, it is difficult, but not 
impossible, to kill each of them with The Knife. It's quite a bit faster, if you 

use The Sten instead.

Through the next door, you'll encounter your first really difficult scenario on 

floor 18. Seven fast moving Infantry Men guard a pillared room, and behind
them, a Machine Gunner, well shielded behind a pillar, makes it  very difficult 

to enter the room. There's a door on your right, as you enter the pillar room, 
but you'll want to clear this room, before going through. 

The Infantry men are your first priority. you must lure them back into the 
initial Gold Key area, and take them out from your position to the right of the 

door. Don't be too quick to Save here, though, unless you've killed them all, 
because they will come out of the pillared room quickly, usually two or three
in a group. 

You won't have much success trying to take out the Machine Gunner from 
the doorway, but you might use up a lot of Ammo, Health and Armor. I 
defeated him by quickly entering the room and turning left, so that the pillars
and stone wall supports gave me cover. I then hugged the back wall, and 
crossed quickly directly in from of the Machine Gunner (!), and fired at him
in bursts from very close range, he on my left, and a stone wall support on my
right for cover. At such close range, I could fire 4-6 rounds and withdraw 
before he had time to react. After enough repetitions, he will no longer be a 
stone in your shoe. Watch out for an Infantry Man, who might come out 
behind you from the side door, to the right as you enter the pillared room. 

Remove the threat posed by the two SS Soldiers in the hall following the 
room to the right of the door. In the next hall, there will be a door at the far 

end, and a locked door to your right. This is the second Gold Key door 
described above. You'll want to go back several rooms, to the alcove behind 
the SS Soldier in the gray stone area, on the left hand side, as you retrace 
your steps. The forest is much easier to clear if you start from the bottom up.

The forest on this floor is arranged like a giant swastika. Three of the four 
branches end with a locked door. 

Your first dilemma is to battle two Infantry Men and two SS Soldiers, but you
shouldn't have much trouble here. There are no Land Mines in this forest, nor
are there any Soldiers hiding in shrubs. 

As you turn left into the main part of the forest, you'll encounter most of your

enemies before you reach the junction; two flame-throwing Viper Soldiers, 
two Chain Gun Viper Soldiers, and a seemingly endless supply of Infantry Men.
The flame-throwing Viper Soldiers and Infantry should all be on your left. Just
when you think things are safe, the Chain Gun Viper Soldiers will approach on
your right.
Use the corner of forest on your left hand side for cover; don't try to take them

all out from directly in front of you. Try to draw the Chain Gun Viper Soldiers
towards you, as you retreat back to the gray stone area door. They'll do less
damage if you can put some distance between yourself and them.

Once you get to the junction of the four arms of the swastika, you'll only have 

to contend with two SS Soldiers guarding each of the locked doors. 

Find the forest door that opens with the Gold Key, and turn right. You're
in familiar territory, as you'll have seen this room before doubling back to do
the forest. 

Through the door, you'll find a small ante room, with side rooms to your left
and right. To the right, you'll be able to replenish your Health and Ammo, and
you'll find the first Secret, some gold bars and a Pill.

Go through the vestible on your left, and you'll find a treasure room behind 
the Hitler portrait. 

Through the door to your right, you will be in a Stealth area. There are a 
multitude of Soldiers in this area, including two Chain Gun Viper Soldiers, 
and you will be attacked simultaneously if they hear any gunfire. There's also
an Alarm Box, in the first room on the left, heavily guarded by SS Soldiers 
and Infantry Men. The secret room is a good place to dig in for the flood of 
Soldiers, as is the vestibule entrance. What makes this area particularly 
difficult is that one of the Chain Gun Venom Soldiers is in the corridor, so 
Stealth weapons are not an option, after you take out the first few Infantry 
Men in the corridor. Try to draw the first Chain Gun Venom Soldier out of 
the corridor, so that you won't have to fight him and Infantry Men at the 
same time.

The second Chain Gun Venom Soldier is in the last room on the left, guarding
the Bronze Key. You'll also find the third secret in the room with the Bronze
Key. Reinforce your Armor in the room to the right of the Bronze Key and
Chain Gun Venom Soldier. He won't leave his room, in response to the alarm.

The Bronze Key opens both the first locked door in the room next following 
the elevator, at the beginning of the floor, and also one of the locked doors in

the forest. Behind each of the locked doors is a flame-throwing Viper Soldier. 

If found it better to enter the Bronze Key area from the forest. You'll first have

to defeat the first Viper Soldier, (withdraw back into the forest, and use the 
trees at the corner to your right for cover), then five Infantry Men. If you 
move back into the forest and re-enter, expect some additional Soldiers to 
come out of rooms. Save the second flame-throwing Viper Soldier for last. 
He's hiding in an alcove to your right as you enter the forest. Behind him is 
the locked door in the first room after the elevator. If you can coax both 
Venom Soldiers out into the forest, and kill them with the Bronze Key locked
door closed, you can contain all of these Infantry Men to the barracks, on 
your right,  where it is much easier to kill them with Stealth weapons.  If you
clear the barracks silently, when you go through the door between the two 
Iron Crosses, you may be fortunate to face a single Infantry Man, before 
clearing the rooms on the left of Officers.  If they are aware of your pending 
arrival, the Officers may already be in the corridor waiting for you.

You'll find a Pill, Secret #4, in one of the Officer's rooms. 

In the next room, you'll face three Officers and an SS Officer, (one Officer is
through the door to your right, at the top of the room. The left door will bring

you to the corridor where the you'll find a Stealth area, with four rooms. The
second and third doors lead to one room, so clear rooms 1 and 4 first. Room
one contains an Infantry Man with the rocket launcher, guarding the Silver
Key. 

You can now return to the forest, to open the Silver Key door, where you'll 
have to overcome two Venom Soldiers, one of each, to reach the elevator to 
floor 19.

With the Chain Gun Venom Soldier, you'll want to hug the wall to the left, 
and maintain a steady stream of bullets at the edge of the elevator, preventing
him from coming out after you.

19. Floor 19 has several very difficult sections, particularly in the areas
immediately following locked doors. You won't find a lot of Armor
fortifications, and you just know that you'll need a lot of Armor for the
final floor.

Start by taking care of the SS Soldier in the elevator next to you as you
disembark from floor 18. To your left, the door will open to a hall where
there are eight SS Soldiers and a flame-throwing Viper Soldier. Three of 
them can be lured to the doorway, to taste your Knife. Of the five 
remaining SS Soldiers, first remove from play the one at upper left, then 
withdraw back to the elevator area, and use the corner on your right for
cover against the Viper Soldier's flames. 

Use Stealth as you advance into the blue stone area. There will be an ante
room following the first main blue hall, followed by a corridor with five 
doors on the right, and one at the end of the end. Find the first Secret, 
two Pills, in the wall to your left as you enter the corridor. An SS Soldier 
guards the Gold Key in the room at the far end.

Return to the locked door that's on your left in the hall following the
elevator area, and be prepared to face too many SS Officers and Soldiers
to count, along with two flame-throwing Viper Soldiers. You'll want to
point your Chain Gun to the right as you enter, and rend a few of them,
before withdrawing and allowing them to come to you. 

Remember that you're in a semi-Stealth area when you go back in to
explore and clear the rooms. If you use loud Guns in the room at the
extreme left, you will draw out the SS Officers and Soldiers in the
room on the extreme right, (opposite sides of the long corridor).

You'll find Secret #2, some Treasure, behind the Iron Cross at the far
end of the first room, to your extreme left. The third Secret is in the
wall to your right as you enter the Gold Key area. 

There are seven doors on the left side of the corridor. An Officer 
behind the sixth door holds the Bronze Key, which opens the locked
door behind door #4.

The won't be using Stealth when you enter the Bronze Key area, but
you will need it to get the Blue Key from the the twenty-odd SS who
guard it. 

You'll first have to overcome a lot of Infantry Men who are milling
about in the hall immediately through the Bronze Key door. Some
 of these are very difficult to kill, as they are smarter than your
average Infantry Man, and will hug the walls next to pillars to your
right and left. At least one of these Infantry Men, to the left, carries
a rocket launcher.

The second room from upper left contains fifteen SS Officers and
Soldiers, as well as the Blue Key. Stealth is of utmost importance
here, not with respect to Soldiers in other rooms, but because 
there are so many in the room standing at attention, who will 
wake up en masse if they hear shots. You can draw a few out to 
the main hall, then you'll want to drop the others with precise 
single shots from your Sten. 

You can replenish Health in the first and third rooms of the wall 
opposite the entrance to the Bronze Key area. 

The fourth room on the upper side of the hall has many Infantry
and a Chain Gun Viper Soldier. If your Armor is low, and you're
not concerned with 100% Kill, leave this room alone. If you want
to clear this room, take out most or all of the Infantry to your
right, as you open the door. Draw the Chain Gun Viper Soldier
out towards you. Use the doorway into the Bronze Key area as
a shield. You should fire just to the left of him, so you can keep
him to your right at all times. Don't give him a good angle to
shoot at you.

The Blue Key opens the locked door to your right, as you enter
the Bronze Key area. 

Press the side wall to the left of the locked door to the Blue Key
door for the fourth Secret. 

The Blue Key area is brutal. The easy part is as you enter, where
you only have to contend with five Infantry Men and a 
flame-throwing Venom Soldier. Look for the final Secret 
directly across from the locked door in. There are two more
flamers in the next room. Advance past the second and third
flame-throwing Viper Soldiers, and you'll find an ante room,
where there is a Helmet, and some Health and Ammo 
supplements. You now have only to defeat your last few
enemies before gaining access to the elevator, but they're
tough; a rocket launching Infantry Man, a Machine Gunner
with a very advantageous location, and four Chain Gun
Venom Soldiers in the elevator. 

Cut down the launcher first. Advance along the left hand wall
a bit, and catch the edge of the Machine Gunner with your
Chain Gun rounds, as if you were killing him by removing
the left side of his body. If you can see his face, you're too
close. 

Draw out the Chain Gun Venom Soldiers in the elevator one
at a time. The last two might come out together. Peek in, let 
them come to you, use wall corners for shielding, firing on
the right, with cover to your left. 

Go back and find any Armor you may have left behind, before
proceeding to the final floor. Don't be surprised if you've 
already used it all. 

20. You've reached the final floor, and you face some of your
biggest tests yet. This floor is not as tough if you aren't 
playing for 100% Kill, but at this point, you really ought to
be up to that challenge. 

As you emerge from the elevator, you'll find six doors. To 
your left, a Health room, and to your right, an Ammo room.
The two doors on the far right and far left will contain 
generous supplies of Guns and Armor. Look for a Secret in
each of the rooms to the far right and left. 

The two doors to right and left opposite the elevator lead
to the final battle ground. 

Expect to lose all of your Armor, and most of your Health,
in the initial battle, against a flood of incoming Infantry
Men and Guards, plus several Viper Soldiers. I entered
through the left side door, and took refuge in the Health 
room when confronted with the prolonged attack. Watch
out for a couple of Infantry Men who will be hiding in your
elevator, when you think the coast is clear. 

Inside the hall, you'll have to contend with eight (!) 
Machine Gunners, three rocket launching Infantry Men, 
two flame-throwing Viper Soldiers, and a Panzer Tank, 
piloted by the last Boss, General Schwartzensturm 
himself, who holds the Gold Key, and your ticket to
freedom. 

You should take out the rocket launching Infantry first. 
The eight Machine Gunners are grouped in pairs, in
each of the four corners of the room. You should start
with the ones on your left and right as you advance
into the hall, before you realize that there are six more. 
Next move on to the ones who are in positions below
you on the left and right. When engaged with this second
pair of Machine Gunners, you will also encounter a
flame-throwing Venom Soldier on each side. Give the 
Venom Soldier a one way trip to the afterlife before doing
the same to the Machine Gunners. 

Take out one of them from close range, by hugging the
wall, and firing at a sharp angle, in bursts. When you've
cleared three of the Machine Gunners in this area, you
can move up in the center for a better shooting angle 
on the fourth. Top up your Ammo from the Ammo room 
near the elevator after each Kill.

Advancing up, you'll find the Panzer Tank waiting for you. 
You can't circle the stone block, shooting as he comes into
sight, because of the Machine Gunners at the far end of the 
room. Draw the tank, instead, back towards the elevator
area, and blow it up from the right-hand door. Move quickly
to the left door to confront General Schwartzensturm, 
(he's similar to unarmored Hitler in many Wolfenstein 3D
episodes). Draw him into the opening corridor, kill him 
from the elevator, and relieve him of the Gold Key. 

You can probably get to the locked door on side left, and
completion of the floor, without engaging the other four
Machine Gunners, but that's going to cost you a lot of 
points. 

There is a door at side left, containing Health, Armor, and
Guns. You'll want to have full Armor for the last four
Machine Gunners. 

As with the  first group of four Machine Gunners, you 
take out the ones on the side first, then the ones against
the back wall. 
 
Use the blocks for cover in battling the side Gunners on
right and left. Move down the center and close in to take
the right side gunner from close range. With three of them
down, you can now move up into a secure position at
middle left to down the final threat. 

Wipe your brow, patch your wounds, and light a victory
smoke. Walk over and through the locked door to the 
left, and celebrate your latest victory.