Unfinished Business "Manual" - by Majik Monkee
-------------------

This mod is not intended to be sold or used for profit in any way. If you're making 
money off it, that's bad, and you could get in a lot of trouble. Don't do it!

-------------------

The Unfinished Business Story 

"Good morning, William..." 

BJ. sat across the table from the aging Director Patterson, soon to be retired chief 
of the O.S.S. (Office of Strategic Services). He nodded in acknowledgement. 

"You look like forty miles of bad road, son. How's the wife doing?" 

BJ. grimaced. "She left me a while back. Thought you'd read that in my file." BJ 
nodded to the thick folder sitting in front of the Director. 

"Who has the time?" Patterson chuckled, glancing at the folder's cover. "I am truly 
sorry to hear about your wife though." 

"It's fine," BJ shook his head, "she said she couldn't be married to a man who was 
already married to the army. She said she felt like a trophy wife, and like even 
when I was there, my mind was elsewhere. She was right, though, and what's done is 
done..." 

Patterson nodded thoughtfully, considering BJ's last few words. 

"I wish that were always true, William..." 

******************* 

BJ and Patterson exchanged further pleasantries over coffee. As the gentlemen reached 
the bottom of their mugs, it was time to get down to business. 

"William...BJ...I know you don't think I just invited you out for coffee as a social 
get together, what with me toting around your O.S.S. file and such, although it certainly 
is good to see you again. You agreed to meet with me, and I owe it to you to explain 
what's going on without making you wait further. 

"Is this a mission, director?" BJ sipped the last of his coffee and focused his gaze 
on the bottom of the mug. 

"Yes and no. It involves a mission, but what I hoped to ask you today is really more 
of a personal favor...one that nobody else but us can know about." 

BJ looked up and raised an eyebrow. 

"Why don't you start at the beginning, Patterson? 


******************* 

BJ and the Director were working on their third cups of coffee by the time Patterson 
finished laying out the details of the situation. A terrorist leader named the Iron 
Fox was stirring up trouble in South America, reportedly using the locals for guinea 
pigs for a recently discovered virus (see included Chupacabra Report), and the President 
of the United States was putting pressure on the O.S.S. to resolve the situation 
quickly and quietly. However, additional intelligence indicated that former O.S.S. 
agent Jill Hunter had been abducted by the Fox, who had some sort of personal vendetta 
with her. 

Patterson cleared his throat. "William, Jill has always been like a daughter to me. 
Since she first came to America, wounded but desperate to keep fighting the Nazis, 
I took her under my wing. I don't think I'd be out of line saying she's seen me as 
a sort of father figure in return." 

The Director's expression turned dark, his brow creased as he scowled. 

"I'll never forgive Agent Dickerson for what he did to her. Never. He got off easy, 
dying like he did, he deserved a lot worse. Jill did the right thing, William, hiding 
the things she did from us. Dickerson took everything she'd built since coming to 
our country and destroyed it, stripped her of everything she had left to love, and 
damn him to hell for it..." 

BJ licked his lips. "I haven't forgotten her saving my life in the process. She's 
a fine soldier. This Iron Fox...any relation to the Silver Fox she killed?" 

Patterson nodded. "Actually, we believe he IS the Silver Fox, or used to be at one 
point. We never did find his body, to our regret. We never considered he might have 
a backup plan in case of his own death. In retrospect, it seems ridiculous to assume 
that he DIDN'T have such a plan." 

BJ nodded. "Yeah, nothing stays dead long where those Regenschirm guys are concerned. 
How did they find Jill, though, and how did they manage to surprise her? She was 
always on the lookout for trouble." 

Patterson frowned. "Regenschirm security in the castle she infiltrated in Austria 
was like nothing we've seen before. In addition to hidden cameras and posted guards, 
anyone who entered the castle was bathed in some previously unknown form of energy 
particles that Regenschirm is able to track over great distances. They followed them 
right to Jill, then apparently waited for the right moment to strike. They waited 
till she was at her most defensless, then grabbed her...right out of the shower!" 


"Those bastards." BJ scowled. 

******************* 

BJ had heard more than enough to convince him it was time for action, but he still 
needed answers...and another cup of coffee. 

"Director, I'm retired from the O.S.S. I've given my life to this country, and I'm 
sure there are other...younger...agents who would freely do the same. Why me?" 

"That's the crux of the matter, William. There are many agents willing to do just 
that, in fact, we're sending in a highly skilled strike team in less than 48 hours 
to deal with Regenschirm..." 

"But...?" 

"But then there's Jill. You see, when she defected from the O.S.S. and went into 
hiding, I swore never to seek her out or contact her in an official capacity. She's 
earned a rest, and I don't feel she has anything to answer for. But not everybody 
feels the same way..." 

"Oh..." 

"A lot of the other O.S.S. bigshots feel as though she's still a wealth of critical 
information we can't afford to let slip through our fingers. Others feel she's a 
criminal and should be prosecuted for abandoning a US sponsored organization. I made 
her a promise when she first joined, though, William...I promised to protect her. 
And I can't keep that promise if she's taken into custody." 

BJ nodded. "What do you want me to do, director?" 

"My fellow O.S.S. leaders don't know Jill was captured by the Iron Fox. I kept that 
information a secret when it was first delivered to me by one of my most loyal agents. 
What's left of Regenschirm is utilizing a former Nazi camp in South America, and 
I need you to get in there, find Jill, and get both of you out of there alive...before 
the officially sanctioned O.S.S. strike team arrives!" 

******************* 

"Director, I don't want to get in a shootout with O.S.S. agents. I'm likely to be 
seen as the enemy though if they find me there with no knowledge of the mission I'm 
on." 

"Don't let it come to that, William. Don't be there when they arrive. I know you 
can do this. Hit Regenschirm hard and fast, and you'll be out before they know what 
hit them." 

"Any support?" 

Patterson nodded. "None directly, though. We'll be inserting you into the camp by 
high altitude parachute jump, and shortly after, we'll be sending a "care package" 
with some hard hitting weaponry." 

BJ nodded. "That will be a nice change. I tell you what, Patterson, you've almost 
got yourself a deal...almost..." 

The Director raised an eyebrow. "What more can I do to persuade you, William?" 

BJ grinned. "One more cup of coffee...then we've got a deal!"
------

OVERVIEW
--------
Greetings, and thank you for (I'm assuming) playing my mod! This represents the last 
project I myself will be heading, and while it's taken quite a while to complete, 
I think the results are worth it. Some of my manuals can get pretty wordy, but this 
is only a four level mod, so why make you spend more time reading than playing? Controls 
are exactly the same as Wolfenstein 3D, and all of the enemy types are based off 
of enemies from the original game. The good news is that this mod doesn't feature 
stationary traps like many of my past mods did (with varying degrees of success). 
The bad news is that the difficulty of this mod is quite a bit steeper than classic 
Wolfenstein, and may present a significant challenge to newer players. There are 
no keys hidden in pushwalls or required secrets in this mod, however, there is a 
secret level this time around, assuming you can find it!
--------

CREDITS
-------
Put these in the closing screens when you win the mod. If you can't win it, feel 
free to email me or track me down at the forum with questions on what comes from 
where. I used to credit materials used in mods in the manual, but I found that more 
astute types can tell what's coming by looking at what resources were used to make 
the mod, and where's the fun in that?

COMMENTS
--------
This will most definitely be my final mod (for real, this time, I know I said that 
about Hundenberg as well). I still enjoy the Wolfenstein community, but as far as 
leading a project like this again, I just don't have the time anymore! Look for me 
at the DHW forums, though, and if you'd like to shoot me an email, feel free to at 
matthewmdmerrill (at) yahoo.com.

-Majik-