        ...another chapter in WW2 history...it opens opportunity...
     SECRETS OF                
       OFFENBACH

January 19, 1944. The castle of Offenbach was infiltrated. Many alarms were peeping, 
officers shouting and running, and guards in chain reaction. The infiltrator was 
you, B.J. Blaczkowicz. But that's long time ago... Now it's February 4, 1953. The 
war is over, and you are relaxing home in USA. Then, at night, your phone rings. 
It's the boss of OSA (Office of Secret Actions) who wants you to travel back to Germany. 
He tells, that the "Neo-Nazis" are begun to come, and under a secret selection two 
days ago, they won - with same threads as the original Nazis did in 1933. The country 
is just getting better, and then they will come again. He ask you to ruin their new 
project "Todeskrieg", mission is to take over Denmark, Holland, or just - whole northern 
Europe. You agree. The next morning you say goodbye to your wife, and fly in an airplane 
to Berlin. Here you walk in ruins, crying people and poor ones. You know, that it 
is the Nazi regime that did this, so you are filled up with anger now. You have your 
best and first pistol, Luger P38 in your suitcase, which you put down on some grey 
bricks. These brick are the corridor entrance to Castle Heruthaus, where you heard 
that Schabbs, which you also killed, has become alive again. Causes are unknown. 
Many say that it's Doctor Mengele, but he is in court by now. Otherwise it can be 
himself? Well, he found Fettgesicht, who leaded the ruined project "Giftkrieg" in 
Castle Offenbach two years ago. He is now founded, and cremated. He will be in holiness 
for the Nazis. 

Though, many say that Castle Heruthaus is haunted. It is not sure that it's true, 
but who knows?

The castle is spitted up in several parts, all with a different mission.

		 LEVEL GUIDE

Levels 1-7 – NEUABTEILUNG PART.

As you enter the castle, you come to the sewers, just in head of the cargo lair. 
And there, mostly of it is easy to hit out. Although, some levels have odd places, 
and big secrets. The leader here is Kolbenfesicht Grosse, and he isn’t so difficult 
at all. Wearing green and shouting “Achtung!” you’ll know him.

Levels 8-17 – WOLFGANG PART.

This part starts in very old places. Then it go over in normal bunkers, one labyrinth 
and a laboratory station. The rest of it is just more bunkers, and then the boss, 
Trans Grosse Jr. He is also known for Nazism, like his father was, while he guarded 
the Spear of Destiny back in 1941.




Levels 18-22 – KNOCHENSTAHL PART.

This part has many difficult and different places. Most of them have many different 
guards in each level. Here the leader is Karl “Einaugen” Schwarzmann. His nickname 
is german for “One eye” caused a big mining disaster in Bergen-Belsen in 1944.

Levels 23-28 – BÖGELHUUS PART.

Mostly offices and small bunkers, this part lays in the castle. In here, guards are 
like bugs. Filled with them, and darn difficult to get rid off! Guarded by a guy 
named Yves Krell, half french-half german, and guarded in heavy armor. Difficult, 
very difficult. 

Levels 29-31 – THEUPRASTUS PART.

Well, this part is maybe hard to explain. It’s filled with old prisons and small 
halls, and narrow corridors. No leader here, but a hell of guards!

Levels 32-35 – SCHNELLERSTROM PART.

Normal bunkers, for once. Although these are build of classic, and good for the Nazis. 
Many places to hide, and secrets and corridors. No leader here either.

Level 36 – THE BORDERLANDS/TUNNEL.  

Here the castle enters a new part, but in a different way. This a tunnel.

Levels 37-39 – ZÜEGELHOLLEN PART.

Closed/Not closed prisons. Guarded by many. And after that, the labs are in your 
hands. 

Levels 40-49 – DRICHWARFT LABORATORIES.

You reach the laboratory, and must begin an assault with 9 deadly labs. Many scientists. 
And here, Schabbs is. It’s not the old one though. This is his cousin, which has 
much more hygiene and thoughts. He is in the last lab.

Level 50 – INCARNATED NIGHTMARE AT THE OFFENBACH CASTLE.

If you remember Episode 6, this place is heaven. And somewhere in this complex, Fettgesicht 
is hiding.

Levels 51-60 – SECRET LEVELS.









