OnlineHost     Welcome to the auditorium!  Remember, your comments are seen only
by other members of your row.
OnlineHost     * * *   Copyright 1992
               * * *        America Online, Inc.
               * * *             All Rights Reserved
               * * * 
               * * *   Serving America Online, Promenade, 
               * * *             and PC Link
               * * *
OnlineHost     Welcome to the Rotunda, America Online's auditorium
               for special Computing and Software events. Online
               auditoriums differ from other online rooms in that
               they are designed to hold an unlimited number of
               people.
OnlineHost     The auditorium is divided into two areas:
                               
               * The stage, where presenters and hosts are.
                               
               * The chat rows, where you are. 
                               
               Each chat row holds a maximum of 8 people.
OnlineHost     You can hear what is said on stage and what is said
               by others in your row.
                
               Comments made by others in your row are preceded
               by the row number. Comments made by those on stage
               have no number in front of the comment.
OnlineHost     Please note that you can speak to others in your row,
               but what you say cannot be heard by those on stage.
               To ask a question of or make a comment to those on
               stage, you must use the Ask a Question function of
               the Apple software or the Interact function of the PC
               software.
OnlineHost     The total number of people in the auditorium is
               displayed at the top of your screen. If you are on a
               Macintosh or an Apple II, you will also see your name
               at the top of the screen in addition to the names of
               those on stage. This does not mean you are on stage.
OnlineHost          Every effort will be made to get
                    to as many questions as possible
                    within the time available.
OnlineHost     Apogee was started in 1987 with the release of the
               popular shareware game Kingdom of Kroz. From that
               point they have grown steadily, and in the past year
               and a half Apogee has grown from five people to 26.
OnlineHost     Recent releases of such games as Commander Keen and
               Duke Nukum demonstrates how well Sega Genesis and
               Nintendo games can be duplicated on the IBM PC. And
               Duke Nukeum adds even more innovations to Apogee's
               list of accomplishments--primarily, Duke Nukum is the
               first IBM game with multi-layered levels.
OnlineHost     Apogee is the only publisher committed to bringing
               these types of games to the IBM world. And this
               committment has paid off.Commander Keen has been
               ranked number one on the ASP Shareware Top Ten List
               for many months, and Duke Nukum is currently
               skyrocketing to the number one position.
OnlineHost     Commander Keen was a breakthrough game for Apogee,
               since it demonstrated our ability to create
               Nintendo-style games on the IBM PC, with full-screen
               scrolling and smooth animation. No other game
               publisher had ever done this prior to Commander Keen.
OnlineHost     We're also committed to the shareware concept as a
               marketing tool. Our innovative marketing method is
               to release episode one of a game series as shareware,
               such as with Duke Nukum, and hope that players who
               enjoy the game will want to continue their adventure
               in the follow-up episodes, only available through
               Apogee.
OnlineHost     Apogee is located in Garland, Texas, just outside
               ofDallas. It is headed by Scott Miller (President)
               and George Broussard (Executive Vice President).
OnlineHost     Id Software, the creators of Commander Keen, have
               broken new ground with their all-new Wolfenstein 3D.
                
               This is very first ever "texture-mapped" three
               dimensional (3D) game with REAL-TIME scrolling and
               panning!
OnlineHost     Most 3D games, such as all the flight simulators
               available commercially, use the polygon fill method.
               Wolfenstein 3D uses a 3D technology that has NEVER
               been seen commercially.
OnlineHost     Wolfenstein 3D is simply a technology breakthrough!
               As an escaped prisoner in a German war camp, you will
               move smoothly through a 3D world full of amazing
               detail and animation.  Unlike other 3D games, you'll
               move SMOOTHLY through an incredible and realistic 3D
               environment, with intelligent moving guards and
               opponents.
OnlineHost     And now, we welcome both Apogee and ID to the
               Rotunda!
AFL Bobloo     Greetings, Jay
ID Softwr Hello...good to be here
PC Simon  Hi, Jay..and welcome to the Rotunda, the Games Forum....
PC Simon  from a lot of your fans out there in the audience :D
PC Simon  For those of us who knew your previous games....
PC Simon  and had seen their development...we were STILL, I think,
PC Simon  all put away by what you folks created in Wolfenstein
PC Simon  It was like the proverbial (albeit somewhat cliched) quantum leap :D
PC Simon  How DID you get the idea for doing this game? :D
ID Softwr We are all Applie II fans from way back and as many have guessed...
ID Softwr Wolf3d has it's roots in Castle Wolfenstein from MUSE software....
ID Softwr In fact we had intended to include ALL of the neat tricks of Castle
Wolfenstein...
PC Simon  RIght..I played that on both the Apple // and the C64
ID Softwr in Wolf3d.  The problem was that play became a problem with the...
ID Softwr interface getting  in the way of the fun.  So we decided to make it a
straight shooter...only 3-D.

PC Simon  One question that a few members had was how you managed to get the rights
to a game that was
PC Simon  originally published by another company.
ID Softwr Our commercial distributor, FormGen, carried the torch on that one...
ID Softwr They hired the legal dudes to wade throught the paperwork and get the
rights...
ID Softwr We just signed a check for the fees. :)
PC Simon  Well...we are all certainly glad you got them...because even without all
the tricks, this one is 
PC Simon  even more fun than the original (at least for me :D)...but I'm a sucker
for
PC Simon  high-tech glitz and good scrolling :D
ID Softwr Not to mention the blood and guts! :)
PC Simon  Do we have any questions from the audience yet, Bob?
AFL Bobloo     Sure do...
AFL Bobloo     Jamie2527 has a problem he'd like some help with...
Question       The digitized sounds in Wolf 3D is locking my computer up! Any
ideas?  I am using the new
Question       version!
PC Simon  Well..I just pretend that they're rubber bullets, Jay :D
ID Softwr Ok I have the answer!
ID Softwr It's here somew
AFL Bobloo     Can't ask for more than that!
ID Softwr CAPT COMIC had the same problem and found the answerr for us
ID Softwr It seems his serial card was at fault....
ID Softwr The answer is detailed in a message from CAPT COMIC in the APOGEE
section....
ID Softwr in a sentence he had to work with his hardware addresses to straighten
it out...
ID Softwr I suggest you have a look at the message.
AFL Bobloo     How2Flirt wants to know:
Question       With the other episodes will there be other characters besides
guards and dogs?
PGM Guest1     Yes, there are Mutants, Officers and, of course, cool Bosses!
AFL Bobloo     CrazyCanuk has a hope...
Question       Grenades???  Please???  I understand the interface could be a
prob... But it would just be
Question       so much fun!!!  Hehehe...
PC Simon  Our new guest, on the PGM Guest account is John Romero!
PGM Guest1     Perhaps the NeoGeo version will have grenades...
AFL Bobloo     Nouveau1 asks...
Question       Will the other 5 episodes feature the ability to get german uniforms
or any other weapons
Question       or items?  You mention new sounds and guards..what are some new
things that will be found in the
Question       next 5...
PGM Guest1     No getting of uniforms or anything better than a chaingun...
PGM Guest1     ...because we wanted PURE ACTION and not a lot of garnish!
PC Simon  (John is Systems Engineer for ID Software, by the way :D)
PC Simon  And you got lots of pure action :D
AFL Bobloo     CraigB4711 says...
Question       Several people I know have complained that the secret doors are
discovered by chance
Question       rather than logic.  I'venoticed it also.  Was there a reason for
that?
PGM Guest1     They aren't required, but a sort-of general rule is to look...
PGM Guest1     ...behind pictures, etc.  There's no visual hints.
AFL Bobloo     Brigand G asks:
Question       What does it cost to register Wolfenstein? Just curious.
PGM Guest1     It cost $35 for the trilogy, $50 for all six, or $20 for the...
PGM Guest1     ...episodes 4-6.  And $10 for the 70+ page Hint Book
AFL Bobloo     And with that...
PC Simon  HOWEVER... somebody is going to get it for a lot less than that right
now!!
AFL Bobloo     Yepper!
AFL Bobloo     It's time for our door prize...
AFL Bobloo     Or.. one of several, I should say.
AFL Bobloo     And... who is our winner?
OnlineHost     And our winner is Nouveau1 !! Congrats
PC Simon  Indeed, yes
AFL Bobloo     Congtrats!!!
PC Simon  Congrats, Nouveau1 !!!!
ID Softwr All right Nouveau1.   Enjoy.
PGM Guest1     CongaRats!
AFL Bobloo     Nouveau...send your REAL name and address to me, and I will forward
it on
PC Simon  Nouveau..also include the disk size you need...3.5 or 5.25...
AFL Bobloo     To the folks who can get your prize out to you :)
PGM Guest1     Can I win one, too?
AFL Bobloo     Indeed. Thanks for reminding me of that part, Simon. :)
AFL Bobloo     that was my question, John... hehehe
PC Simon  Ummm...John...are you sure you WANT another one, John? :D
AFL Bobloo     Anyhow...
PC Simon  Do we have more questions, Bob? :)
AFL Bobloo     Here is a good follow up question....
AFL Bobloo     to all of this...
AFL Bobloo     From DCampbell
Question       Have you shipped the sequels yet?
ID Softwr Yes...but we are filling a ton of back orders to fill...
ID Softwr Apogee expects to have them filled by late this week...
PC Simon  Those disk dupe units at Apogee must be going full tilt :D
ID Softwr You know it.  Overheating is more like it. :)
AFL Bobloo     Tovarishch has a follow up question regarding the sound problem
Question       Is this the same when the sound comes and goes randomly?
PC Simon  By the way.....when using the Apogee boards..you should always post tech
questions for a game in the
ID Softwr Not sure...we can't duplicate it here in the office.
PC Simon  specific folder for that game...it'll get answered faster that way.
AFL Bobloo     CraigB4711 has a question...
Question       Each time I run the game, I have to set the sound effects to use my
AdLib card.  Is there
Question       a way to have it maintain that automatically?
PGM Guest1     It should be saved in the CONFIG.WL? file.  You must be having...
PGM Guest1     ...some kinda weirdo problem!  Is it a REAL Adlib card?
AFL Bobloo     And Nouveau1 has a question that he will know the answer to
shortly..:)
Question       Will the new episodes work with ROLANDS and PRO AUDIO SPECTRUM
16's????

PGM Guest1     No.
AFL Bobloo     BrigandG wants to know
Question       Are you looking at any other applications of Wolfenstein's 3D view? 
(e.g. space combat,
Question       golf, etc..)
PGM Guest1     A new shareware game is being developed that uses the Wolf...
PGM Guest1     ...engine.  There are a couple more games that use our next...
PGM Guest1     ...generation engine.
AFL Bobloo     Duane 777 says...
Question       Any thought on making a car game, totally different and exciting
like wolf? (if you need
Question       suggestions i have plenty!)
PGM Guest1     We were thinking of making an F-Zero-type game, but we...
PGM Guest1     ...trashed it in favor of some new technology we need to...
PGM Guest1     ...develop.
AFL Bobloo     Tovarishch wants to know:
Question       What is the maximum possible score on scenario 1?
PGM Guest1     Somebody knows.  I can get 500,000+ points by making it out...
PGM Guest1     ...in 5:20!
AFL Bobloo     ZenGEOS asks...
Question       why are episodes 4-6 less than the 1st trilogy?
AFL Bobloo     (Sheesh... you FLOORED me with that score.. and TIME... )
PGM Guest1     Because it'
PGM Guest1     is a GREAT DEAL!  You need to have already purchased the...
PGM Guest1     ...first trilogy to execute it, though!
PGM Guest1     ga
PC Simon  You have to have  a 1-3 registered in order to purchase 4 -6 separately
:)
AFL Bobloo     Another question from CraigB4711
Question       I've seen a program that reads a file of Wolf 3D and creates
printable maps.  Do you have
Question       a problem with people doing that?
ID Softwr No...in fact we are thinking about an official Map printer/editor.
ID Softwr And it will work with v1.1.
AFL Bobloo     How2Flirt is curious:
Question       Will there be more cool "cartoons" like at the end of part 1??
ID Softwr DEATHCAM!....
PC Simon  Yes...we should mention to Craig...that the old map editor we had will
NOT work with 1.1 :)
ID Softwr When you toast some of the bosses in the later episodes you get to....
ID Softwr see the action at a different angle with DEATHCAM. :)
AFL Bobloo     hehehe.. I like it :)
AFL Bobloo     A question now
AFL Bobloo     From Iam Online
AFL Bobloo     Who wants to know
Question       Are the sequels that same thing with different maze? Or completely
different?
PGM Guest1     The sequels have lots of new wall graphics, new bosses, but...
PGM Guest1     ...there are still the same enemies.
AFL Bobloo     Here is a fascinating question. Thanks for asking it, Craig!
Question       Did the response to Wolf 3D surprise you?  I've been amazed at the
interest people have
Question       had in the game.  Of course, I'VE been amazed with the game! :-)
PGM Guest1     We were expecting this game to get a huge response because...

PGM Guest1     ...of the technology and because we put it in shareware.
AFL Bobloo     How2Flirt has a comment for you...
Comment        I really wish you'd tackle a RPG ....
PGM Guest1     Someone else is tackling an RPG: Scott Host of Galactix fame.
PC Simon  Great :D
AFL Bobloo     JamesW7802 asks a great question, too...
Question       I have Version 1.0.....will the patch or 1.1 help me more and in
what way?
PGM Guest1     Yes, it will fix lots of niggling little bugs and it's half the...
PGM Guest1     ...download size!
AFL Bobloo     What do you say, Simon...
AFL Bobloo     That time again?
PC Simon  I think so, Bob :)
AFL Bobloo     I couldn't agree more...
OnlineHost     ... Nor I :)
OnlineHost     I get to do the fun part!
AFL Bobloo     That you do, Hostie :)
OnlineHost     How about it, PatrickMc
PC Simon  Congrats, Patrick!
OnlineHost     Want a FREE copy of Wolfie? :)
AFL Bobloo     Send me your REAL name and address...and disk size
AFL Bobloo     (3.5" or 5.25")
ID Softwr Great Patrick.
AFL Bobloo     And I'll forward it on to those who will ship it out to you!
AFL Bobloo     Congrats again :)
AFL Bobloo     Well now... 
PC Simon  Do we have more questions, Bob?
AFL Bobloo     Back to questions
AFL Bobloo     We sure do :)
AFL Bobloo     EDJ wants to know
Question       Do you plan on adding extra utlilties to Wolf 3-D other than walls,
like extra objects or
Question       enemies for this game or sequels?
PGM Guest1     In episodes 2-3 there's Mutants and Officers.  In 4-6 there's...
PGM Guest1     ...new wall graphics and of course, new bosses.  The retail...
PGM Guest1     ...version of Wolf will have new bosses as well.  And, I can't...
PGM Guest1     ...forget to say there's also a DeathCam in 2-6!
AFL Bobloo     KB27 wants to know...
Question       CAN YOU GIVE US SOME MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE CONTESTS THAT  YOU
KEEP REFERING TOO?
PGM Guest1     Aw geez!!! Speak o' the devil!  We're not sure what's going on...
PGM Guest1     ...with the contest since there's map editors and all.  We're...
PGM Guest1     ...still thinking about it.
AFL Bobloo     Nouveau1 played the Apple version as did many of us... and asks..
Question       In the old Wolfenstein for the apple the guards would SCREAM &
SCREETCH when you shot
Question       them... any new audio effects in these new episodes...also Will you
be creating more than just 6
Question       episodes in the future???
PGM Guest1     There's TONS of new screams and stuff!  The dogs scream ...
PGM Guest1     ...when you shoot them and on the Secret Levels there's a ...
PGM Guest1     ... chance that someone will "cut the cheese"!  HA!
AFL Bobloo     Oh My!!
AFL Bobloo     hehe

AFL Bobloo     How2Flirt asks another
PC Simon  LOL :D
Question       Are you considering Cd-rom products?
PC Simon  An interesting effect, to be sure.....
PGM Guest1     Yes, we're thinking about buying King's Quest V sometime...
PGM Guest1     ...Just kidding.  The new "Gryphon" system that Microsoft is...
PC Simon  :D
PGM Guest1     ...behind will be a fine candidate for a port!
AFL Bobloo     EDJ asks another
Question       Will there be a larger selection of weapons and will the scenes of
violence become more
Question       graphic?
PGM Guest1     How could they?  Please offer any suggestions!
AFL Bobloo     CraigB4711 wants to know...
Question       What does the hint book provide?  Maps, codes, anything else?
PGM Guest1     Maps, hints, lots of Wolfenstein Lore and the hints are FUNNY!
AFL Bobloo     Nouveau1 wants to know
Question       Will there be more than just 6 wolf3d episodes in the future???
PGM Guest1     The hint book also speaks of ... A SECRET JUKEBOX!!!
PC Simon  ::perking up:: Secret Jukebox? :D
AFL Bobloo     Hmmmm Shades of Elvis... 
PGM Guest1     Yes, the retail version will have 20 levels, the Lynx version...
PGM Guest1     ...will have 30 levels and the NeoGeo will have ?? levels.
AFL Bobloo     Sort of a follow up
AFL Bobloo     From James W
AFL Bobloo     Who asks
Question       In the other episodes, are they as many levels as episode 1 and then
the secret level (10)
Question       or are they more levels and more secret levels....like secret level
in a secret level? :)
PGM Guest1     Every episode has 10 levels - 9 plus a secret level and the...
PGM Guest1     ...secret level in the 3rd episode is AWESOME!
AFL Bobloo     Here is something I hadn't really thought of...
Question       Why do the objects always face you? (example:The feet of dead guards
always face you, the
Question       knights always faceyou, etc)?
PGM Guest1     That's called "uniaxial rotation" and that lets us have more...
PGM Guest1     ...graphics in memory by not having eight rotations of every...
PGM Guest1     ...object in the game!
AFL Bobloo     You asked for it.. And EDJ has some thoughts for you :)
Comment        Head shots, more splattering blood, more ways of dying.
AFL Bobloo     And Jake T says...
Comment        Will you be auditioning for those "special" sound effects you
mentioned earlier?   :D
AFL Bobloo     hehe
ID Softwr We'll if you want to fly to Dallas....:)
AFL Bobloo     ROTFL!!
PC Simon  Notice...he did NOT say...
PC Simon  WE'LL fly you to Dallas :D
PC Simon  (Sounds like a possible contest :D)
AFL Bobloo     Hmmm.. I wonder if that would be deductible :)
AFL Bobloo     Here is another follow up for you...
Question       What is a LYNX version, and who will DISTRIBUTE your retail version
of wolf3d?
PGM Guest1     FormGen is our retail distributor, based in Canada.  As for...
PGM Guest1     the Lynx question: do you live under a rock?  The ATARI LYNX!
AFL Bobloo     ZenGEOS has some more gory suggestions for you...
Question       how about moans from not quite dead guards & slowly flowing blood
for some time...neat to
Question       go back to a room &see the blood trail from a not quite dead guard
moving to another room!
PGM Guest1     A future project is being considered: Bilestoad 3-D!  Does...
PGM Guest1     ...anyone remember the old Apple version?
AFL Bobloo     Zoomdude says...
Question       I've heard mention of a two player game using the 3D engine in
Wolfenstein.  Any previews?
Question       Btw...I am a Wolf addict...GREAT JOB and thanks for your support on
America Online! :)
PC Simon  That sounds familiar, John..but it's been a lotta years and a lotta games
:D
PGM Guest1     That two player idea was the F-Zero game that got trashed.
AFL Bobloo     ZenGEOS has a general question about ID software...
Question       When will the next game series from ID be released (tentatively) &
what will it be about?
Comment        How about additional weapons (ie. rocket launcher, tear gas, hand
grenaded,etc.)?
PGM Guest1     First of all, it's "Id" as in "did".  Our next project will be...
PGM Guest1     ...the final Commander Keen trilogy!
AFL Bobloo     And.. 
AFL Bobloo     From Uncertain... comes...
Question       Will any of demos of the other sequels to Wolf be offered ??  And
if so, when will they be
Question       available ?? :)
PGM Guest1     Wasn't episode one enough of a demo?  
AFL Bobloo     :)
AFL Bobloo     And with that...
PC Simon  I think 10 levels is more than generous..and it really doesn't qualify
as a demo......it's more of 
PC Simon  a game than some you buy in the stores :D
OnlineHost     Yep It's that time again, huh, Simon?
PC Simon  I think so, Bob...another registered Wolfenstein 1-6!!
AFL Bobloo     Let's see
AFL Bobloo     Wanna pick me, hostie?? :)
OnlineHost     Sorry, Bob
OnlineHost     I think I've got a winner right here!
AFL Bobloo     Ok!
OnlineHost     Jake T.. What do YOU say??
AFL Bobloo     Ohhh! Neat
AFL Bobloo     Congrats, Jake!
PC Simon  Congratulations, Jake! :D
ID Softwr Enjoy the game Jake.
OnlineHost     Send AFL Bobloo your REAL name and Address and disk size
PC Simon  Now..back to some questions! :)
OnlineHost     And he will forward it on to the people with the software :)
AFL Bobloo     Sounds good to me..
AFL Bobloo     Nouveau1 asks...
Question       Please elaborate on your Bilestoad comment...I loved that game on
the apple II...

ID Softwr We have been tossing the idea of a 3-d Bilestode type game around.
ID Softwr We all loved the game and would love to play it in 3-D.
AFL Bobloo     Iam Online now asks..
Question       How 'bout doin' ALIENS in Wolfenstein format? Now thats a game!
PC Simon  :D
PC Simon  I should interject that there does seem to be a very great interest these
days in games with a
PC Simon  space setting among our members....
ID Softwr We can only afford to go after so many copyrights in one year. :)...
PC Simon  LOL!!!
AFL Bobloo     hehehe
ID Softwr We had wanted to do an Aliens game, but pushed it aside to do Wolf3d.
AFL Bobloo     Zoomdude asks
Question       What are your opinions and plans to work with some of the newer
sound cards coming out
Question       such as the new Sound Blaster Pro and the PAS 16.  Do you plan on
writing future games to take
Question       advantage of this technology?
ID Softwr We aleady work with the SBPro.  No plans to do anything with the PAS16,
but you never know...
ID Softwr If we get the specs, we may just suppport it.
AFL Bobloo     Sounds good
AFL Bobloo     This one
AFL Bobloo     is from JamesW
AFL Bobloo     Who asks
Question       Since map editors prevent you from having a contest in Episode
1....what about the other
Question       episodes?
ID Softwr The map editor authors will quickly have their programs wirking with the
other episodes.
AFL Bobloo     And this, from ZenGEOS
Question       Will the final KKeen be all new like 4-6 was compared to 1-3?
PC Simon  It's always tough, I know......we've seen that with so many games.... :D
ID Softwr Tom Hall here:  It will be 256 color VGA, background AND...
ID Softwr foreground parallax, cool music, sounds, and very interesting...
ID Softwr gameplay.  We have time finally to really do Keen up as good...
ID Softwr as we possibly can.  Keen 7 will be cool.
AFL Bobloo     <--- color me drooling...:)
AFL Bobloo     That sounds really marvelous...
AFL Bobloo     I can't wait. 
PC Simon  Me too, Bob....I want THAT one :D
AFL Bobloo     I assume there is no release date in mind on that one?
ID Softwr It will be done...when it's done.  (Apologies to Tim Swihart.)
AFL Bobloo     LOL!!
AFL Bobloo     Boy... have I heard Tim say that a lot.
PC Simon  Yeah :D
PC Simon  Since we have no more questions in the queue, Bob...
PC Simon  I suggest we close up shop here..and adjourn to the PC Games Meeting
Room....
AFL Bobloo     Sounds like a good idea to me!
PC Simon  where we can meet informally with Jay and John :)
PC Simon  Take it away, Bob! :)
OnlineHost        *  *  *  *  WHAT'S HAPPENING ONLINE??  *  *  *  *
                 
                You can quickly find out about other events that you
                might enjoy online if you use KEYWORD:
                 
                  *      TITF:  Tonights Happenings in the forums
                  *   SERVICE:  The FREE What's New & Online Support
                  * COMPUTING:  Takes you to the heart of the Forums
OnlineHost        *    *    *    *   THANK YOU    *    *    *    *
                
                  We are pleased that you have chosen to include
                  America Online in your computing library.
                  We look forward to having you join us again soon.
                
                  Thank you, and good night.
OnlineHost     * * *   Copyright 1992
               * * *        America Online, Inc.
               * * *             All Rights Reserved
               * * * 
               * * *   Serving America Online, Promenade, 
               * * *             and PC Link
               * * *
AFL Bobloo     Thanks for joining us, folks.
AFL Bobloo     You can find the Games Forum by pressing a Control K, and then
typing in PC GAMES
AFL Bobloo     See you all there!