 
 Thanks for purchasing and installing Wolfenstein 3D. Here are some
 quick and helpful notes about the game.
 
 1) To run the game, enter simply WOLF3D from whatever game directory
    you installed it to.  (By default, C:\APOGEE\WOLF3D)
 
 2) If you chose to install the disk based manual during
    installation, you can see it by entering MANUAL from your game
    directory.  If you did not choose that option, you can read it
    from the root directory of the CD-ROM also by typing MANUAL.
 
 3) This game was written in 1992, and as such, the sound engine
    doesn't recognize some newer sound cards.  If your Sound Blaster
    IRQ is higher than 7, you will not get sounds (or will get
    lockups).  There is no way around this at all, you must have a
    lower IRQ to play the game.  Alternately, you could use the NOAL
    and NOSB command line paramters to disable Wolfenstein 3D's use
    of a sound card.
 
 4) If you run into problems, please consult the w3dhelp.exe file in
    your game directory.  It has solutions to many common problems.
    Your answer might be there.  In the meantime, you might try
    running the game like this: WOLF3D NOEMS NOXMS.  That sometimes
    solves lockups unrelated to sound code.
 
 Please Read!
 
 At a point during the game Wolfenstein-3D, you may see a sign in a
 room that says, "Call Apogee - Say 'AARDWOLF'".  Please do not call.
 The "AARDWOLF" sign and the maze it is located in were to be part of
 a contest that Apogee was forced to cancel before it could be
 announced, so you will save yourself some long-distance phone
 charges if you do not call.
 
 Also, you might find yourself locked inside a room in the maze once
 you have found this sign (located in Episode 2, Level 8). The only
 way out in this situation is to restore a saved game at a point
 prior to where you were locked in.  Also, it is not possible to get
 100% of the secrets on this level.  For these reasons, Apogee
 Software does not recommend that you try to complete the maze,
 unless you want the challenge of mapping it yourself.  Apogee does
 not provide support on completing the maze, so be sure to save your
 game often if you try!
 
 We apologize for any inconvenience that this may cause, and we hope
 that you enjoy your game!
 
 October 10, 1994
