                        


       In Return to Castle Wolfenstein, There was a town called Paderborn that was 
full of SS paranormal officers that were to be eliminated...5 of them, as I recall. 
just weeks after B. J.'s sweep through the town, more SS and equipment started appearing 
again. Strange things were happening in the dark alleys of Paderborn. Inhuman screams 
echoed through the streets at night, People vanishing without a trace as they went 
out to the woodshed or to the market. For months this went on...Residents locked 
themselves in at night for fear that they too would fall victim to the unseen terror 
that lurked the streets of their small village. Then one morning an old man appeared 
on the steps of the old bombed out church at the edge of the village. Tattered and 
torn from head to toe, he looked as though he had sat on a bomb...He told tales of 
an underground castle, a big green monster, and many hundreds of Nazi soldiers. He 
told tales of being tortured and "medical procedures" being performed on himself 
and others. The elders of the village dismissed all this as the ramblings of a drunken 
old man, but you, sitting in the corner of the tavern, turn an interested ear toward 
the old guy in hopes of finding out more. "How can this be?" you think to yourself, 
as the old chateau was destroyed by allied bombing just days after B.J's sweep of 
the village. You finally get the old man by himself and he confides in you that he 
was kidnapped and taken to the basement of the delapidated chateau where his captors 
somehow opened a wall panel to reveal a tunnel within...the old man finishes his 
brandy and leaves the tavern, slamming the door on his journey   into the night as 
no amount of coaxing by you could get him to take you there. You are on your own. 
Having arrived a week before to survey the damage left by the allies, and thinking 
that Paderborn was "clean", you find this new information startling at best. Now 
you must find out what the old man knew and you must do it at any cost...after all, 
You have no fear, for you are the son of B. J. Blazkowicz!
