                                              Paderborn
                                   by Lakota Bucksnort

      This is my latest effort at creating a set that will provide you with some 
excitement and non-stop action in the true Bucksnort style. There are 15 levels in 
this set, in one seamless episode. a few minor source code changes...cieling colors 
 have been changed to more closely resemble Spear of Destiny and some new music added. 
Most of the graphics changes come from Spear as well, but also from Ken O'brien and 
Steve Walley's texture library...thanks to both of you.
      The storyline to this mission can be found in the  "Story" document included 
with the set. After the release of "A Time To Die", I decided that maybe I would 
like to develop a story and gameset on my own, without Bobby's help and this is the 
result. I enjoyed playing RTCW, and having been through it on "death Incarnate" several 
times, I still feel that I enjoy the original better. Its easier to make maps for 
too.....LOL
      You start out the game in the basement of the old chateau having entered through 
the tunnel...Good Luck! You will need it...This set is difficult, but not impossible 
to beat.....I have tried to keep keys out of secret rooms as most of them are in 
plain sight. There is a lot of pushwalls and lots of hidden treasure so keep alert. 
Some of the levels are mazy, but then this is Spear of Destiny and I feel that is 
part of it. The atmosphere remains true to the game. On your journey, you will fight 
off  Mutants, officers and lots of SS troops. You will also encounter the Transgrosse, 
The horrible Ubermutant and the Evil Dr. Schabbs. He is the Leader of the Paderborn 
operation. Rumor has it that he has figured out a way to harness the supernatural 
powers of the SPEAR to do his evil bidding...Eliminate him and remove the threat 
to humanity that he poses....Good Luck....Now on your way!

                                      Hey Mo!


Lakota Bucksnort
The Mutant Co. LTD.
comments always welcome....john_bucksnort (at) yahoo.com

                       Long live the Spear!
  
 A special thanks to Brian and Tristan for the Award for "A Time to Die"!        
     