Oh God, what have I done.

So. Looking for a theme, I decided that "proper names in the scenario names" would be a interesting pathway to walk on. It quickly became obvious that far too many Richard Peck scenarios would have qualified, never mind all the ones starting with "Hitler's something or another". After much deliberation (yeah, right), I decided that only scenarios starting with the creator's name would qualify. This backfired immensely, as I ultimately counted 15 (FIFTEEN) scenarios matching these criteria. This seemed insane, but feeling lucky, I went with the flow. Therefore this release has the biggest number of discreet scenarios to be ported in one single update, by far. And since they all seem to be made for the First or Second Encounter, I further decided to bundle them all in one giant mod called the Names Megapack. Putting this together was a bit of a chore, but in the end, everything works and you're spared the tedium of downloading and unzipping every tiny scenario separately. Win-win!

That said, I'm not even going to try to come up with something unique about every single of these scenarios. I would sound like a broken record. Most of these follow the unwritten rules of Mac mapping of the era: close quarters, a lot of enemies. Fairly small maps, but a lot of content for the size. Lots of treasure and secrets, too. Some maps stand out from the crowd, like Tom Williford's 1st stab at cartography, or Todd Swick's unusual overall level design. Some are rather simplistic, some get fairly intricate. Some are easy romps, some - harrowing challenges. But first of all, they're fruit of love for the game, so let's appreciate that sentiment as we delve into the fray.

The scenarios included in this release are as follows:

Baba's Challenge and Baba's Level by Babacakell
DSK’s 1st Wolf by (presumably) DSK
Jason’s Game by Jason Phillips (?)
Jim’s levels-new by Jim (presumably)
JT’s Levels by JTWamphyri
Phil's First Try by Phil (presumably)
PhilBest by Phil (presumably)
Ryan’s level by Ryan (presumably)
Ryan’s Wolf3D by Ryan (presumably)
SCOTT’S by Koenig Co.
TODD’S GAME by Todd Swick (?)
Tom’s Big Map by Tom Williford
Tony’s Levels by Tony Sirron
tony levels of the dammed by Tony (presumably)

Happy wolfing!

===CREDITS===
See above, you nincompoop.