Welcome to Monkeystein 3D the story have fun reading!


        Episode1: Super monkey!!!!!

You BJ Blazcowicz Just killed the last of the berserk soldiers in castle
hollhimmer when you suddenly vanished and re-appeared in an underground mine.
you ponder as you sit there wondering where the hell you are.then you hear faint 
sounds 
of monkeys at play and you think," what the hell are monkeys doing here?"
now you must murder the monkey clones and find out what is going on here!

Level 6
and as you get off the fifth elevator you see whats going on a mad scientist
Dr. Crap Ass is using Dr. Scabbs` evil creations to do his bidding and 
he`s even cloning innocent monkeys into ravisioce beasts! now you must go and destroy 
the super monkey to
halt the invasion of america or worse the world! But you will need a gun like a rocket 
launcher
to take down the super monkey but where can you find one?


         Episode2: Tanks and clanks

you just destroyed the super monkey when you realized it was not the real threat 
at all! a machine
called the Battletank 53B was the real problem. But surely such a great machine would 
be heavely
guarded. but you BJ Blazcowicz took down Hitler so you should be able to handle this 
thing.
But what will guard it you wonder and what if its been activated well your just gonna

have to wait and see!


         Episode3: The Big toilet

you ended the Battletank when you heard it`s last few words "You Can`t win mortal."

and as you pondered over what it said you quickly decided to go to castle scheisse(shit)

for some answers but as you reaches the castle you saw it was guarded by a Demon 
Armor!
and you had to get in, to bad you only brought a pistol! well maybe other people 
whoved
tried to get in might of left something for you! 

level 6
After going threw the Muesem, the long halls,the treasure room,Easy, & the pushwall

Dungeon, you now have to enter the dungeon hall of witch you must run threw if you 
wish to survive
otherwise you`ll be a gonner unless you use cheat codes that is!

level 9
This is it the Main Bosses lair you have to give it all you got if you want to beat 
the boss
and an entire army of spectres, monkeys, and mutants! but to warn you Dr. Crap Ass 
has placed
2 Demon Armors and 1 Gun Drone in his fortress of monkeys!
but you also want to save those items in the first room just in case.

Level 10
you found the fat slouch`s lair and guess what he`s right in front of you! just kill 
off his 40
HP and he`ll transform into the Brain rotted Spider Mastermind with 30 HP!
You better just run to be safe.


                                   You Win!


you defeated Dr. Crap Ass but now you hear of an unholy Cathedral with which the 
evil sorceror Daedolon
has unleashed his evil men opon. now download Unholy Cathedral to continue the Saga 
of BJ Blazcowicz!


                          Happy Wolfing Everyone!
