                ษออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
                บฐฐฑฑฒฒ WOLF3D'S REVOLUTION ฒฒฑฑฐฐฐบ
                บ   ฏฏฏ The Official Hint Book ฎฎฎ   บ
                ศออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ
                             COMING SOON

When the complete, 60-level version of Wolfenstein's Revolution appears
Christmas '95, with it will be available a hint book, created with Corel-
Draw 3.0, in the style of iD Software's original hint book for their
Wolfenstein games. But my hint book will not only contain an overhead
map view, it will also contain screen shots from the game itself, plus
in-depth descriptions of waypoints and a section I call "Notes From The
Designer", which is a little background information on the level in focus.

As of right now I haven't decided how I'm going to distribute the hint
book. At first I thought I would print one complete copy on my LaserJet
and make copies of it as necessary, but that would quickly get tedious,
and the pictures would all by grayscale (since I don't have a color
printer). So I've decided to do one or more of three things:

* Anyone who has CorelDraw 3.0 and above is eligible to recieve the original
  .CDR files, ZIPped on floppy disks. This will be the least expensive
  method, since CDRs zip very well and will only use a few floppies.
* If you don't have CorelDraw but still wish to obtain the hint book in an
  electronic format, I can export each page to a separate PCX file. These
  PCX files will be just like the ones contained in HINTBOOK.ZIP: Not-so
  good looking. I'll experiment with this to try to get better results
  while still keeping the PCX file size down. You don't want 120 PCX files
  over 1 MB each, do you?
* I'll look into having a professional printer make complete, full-color
  copies of the book, but that might be too costly for me. I don't know
  how expensive that stuff gets. 

In the meantime, take a look at these 5 pictures from the book and tell me
what you think needs improvement or adjustment. My email addresses are:

CompuServe: 73552,3423
Internet: blaze (at) oeonline.com


Thanks. And enjoy the levels!
-B.J. Blazkowicz (a.k.a. Brian Rowan)
