Spear Revisited
A Wolfenstein mod by Executor


Welcome to Spear Revisited, a 21-level standalone TC based on the original Wolfenstein 
prequel Spear of Destiny. Spear Revisited retells and expands upon the original Spear 
of Destiny and, thanks to coding changes and 21 sprawling levels, is somewhat more 
grandiose than the original. Spear Revisited was started in April 2006 and finished 
in April 2007, and is probably my most ambitious project to date.

Story

The year is 1941. The Third Reich has overrun almost all of Europe. Britain lies 
under siege and German tank divisions press inexorably towards Russia. The German 
military is plundering Europe's treasures and shipping them back to vaults in Germany 
to add to the wealth of Hitler's empire. And recently, word has reached the upper 
echelons of United States intelligence about a strange Nazi project being conducted 
in the heavily fortified Castle Nuremberg deep inside Germany. The Germans have taken 
possession of the spear that pierced the side of Christ during the crucifixion, the 
so-called “spear of destiny”, that they are using for some sort of occult rituals, 
and have placed it in the castle.

You are William Joseph Blazkowicz, one of the most capable spies in the employ of 
the Allies. You have been assigned to infiltrate Castle Nuremberg to investigate 
the paranormal activities being carried out in the castle, determine the how the 
spear fits into the rituals, and, if possible, recover the spear and destroy the 
people running the project.

Information on what is going on at Castle Nuremberg is sketchy. We have received 
reports of gray-skinned mutants roaming the nearby countryside, some with extra limbs 
grafted on, and of hideous monsters constructed out of pieces of men and machines 
and given life by some unnatural force. Be prepared for anything.

You will be sent in through a series of underground tunnels that lead into the castle. 
The castle itself has 13 floors, the lower five being dungeons and the remaining 
floors composing offices, living spaces, recreational facilities, laboratories, and 
other facilities. The top floor houses the spear. You will have to fight your way 
through the castle to reach it.

We regret to inform you that we will not be able to lend you support in this mission 
due to lack of available resources. You are on your own out there. Good luck.

Levels

Tunnels (levels 1-4): These underground tunnels are the weakest point in Castle Nuremberg's 
defenses. You will enter through a cavern around a mile away from the castle that 
will take you into the tunnels proper.

Castle basement (level 5): The tunnels terminate at the base of the castle, where 
Trans Grösse, head of castle security, awaits. You will probably need to terminate 
him to gain access to the castle.

Dungeons (levels 6-9): These dark, cold dungeons contain both political prisoners 
of the Reich and locals who have been abducted for experiments. The dungeons are 
more heavily fortified than the tunnels, so be careful.

Ludwig Fotzekopf's private floor (level 10): Ludwig Fotzekopf is head of the Wehrmacht 
division stationed at Castle Nuremberg and the warden of the prisons. One must obtain 
clearance from him to proceed to the higher floors—or kill him and take his key.


Castle (levels 11-14): These four floors compose the nerve center of Castle Nuremberg, 
and many high-ranking officers reside here. The entire castle will be alerted to 
your presence by this point, so expect ambushes, barricades, and heavy resistance. 
On the day of your insertion, the head of the Castle Nuremberg project, Dr. Fritz 
Adenauer, is scheduled to meet with an official who was sent by a mysterious scientist 
known as Arzt Schabbs. They will meet on the highest floor of this section. Kill 
them both, and bring back any papers or other information you find on them so we 
can analyze it and learn more about this “Dr. Schabbs”.

Lower laboratories (level 15): This floor is where the bulk of the experiments are 
taking place. Expect a big fight from the guards, and possibly from the “experiments”.


Upper laboratories (level 16): It is believed that the Nazis are working on advanced 
bio-mechanical research on this level, but the informants we installed on this floor 
never reported back to us. Be prepared for anything.

Ramparts (level 17): The floor below the top floor is ringed by ramparts, which must 
be cleaned out before you can proceed. Expect this area to be heavily defended.

Executive level (level 18): The spear is believed to reside on this level. We have 
very little information on this part of the castle. However, informants have told 
us that when the Spear's supernatural energies were channeled by the Nazi rituals, 
it became dangerous to touch it, as people who did so would sometimes “disappear”.

