	Kevin Cartosa was a great army general. He is just about the smartest, strongest, 
and 
most evil general in the world. But everyone knows a legend who stopped a nuke war 
and killed
Hitler himself. But he went crazy... or so they thought. This man, BJ, believes an 
island 
larger than Asia... and that a new enemy is being built on it. He said that the allies 
must
attack while they were weak, but they did not listen. They thought he was crazy, 
because an
island larger than Asia would appear on radar screen, but no. BJ was locked in a 
nut house
when they found him trying to sail to that island. He escaped by taking the pills 
out of the
worker's hand and forcing them in the worker's mouth. He stole a motorboat at a nearby 
dock
and motored to the island. He walked a while in the snow before collapsing in the 
snow.
He woke up and got up to find an armored man with a rifle staring at him. He tripped 
the man
and took the rifle and broke his neck with the handle. This is the beginning of BJ's 
great
adventure!
	Enemies:
	Army Man: Kevin Cartosa has these dudes trained to... the skills of a hobo... Well

they have a rifle! That's enough!
	Cop: Yep. These annoying freakin' nazi officers are too stubborn to let you live 
after
you killed Hitler.
	Security Cyborg: Prof. Mortimer has designed helmets to take over a dead soldier, 
and
they are more brutal and sneaky than before.
	German Shepard: Everybody needs an attack dog.
	Super Soldier: Yeah yeah yeah. Those are SS. Kevin Cartosa's mind works the same 
as
Hitler's, remember that.
	Mega Cop: Mortimer made these just like the Cyborgs, but these are organic and keep

coming back.

	Targets:
	Main Security Setinel: BIG TURRET... well, little turret.
	Colonel Deathtroop: This man trains the cops. He is the brother of Otto Giftmacher 
and
is a sneaky enemy indeed.
	Prof. Mortimer: The bad doctor will attack you in his mobile tank walker that was 
made
only for himself.
	Kevin Cartosa: The psycho maniac has had all of his equipment destroyed by you, 
so now
is your chance to take him while he's weak.

	Level Destinations:
	1: Tech House
	2: Cargo
	Story:
Well, BJ flipped the switch, only to switch on an alarm! Thinking quickly, BJ remembered 
his past
experiences to get him through this. Then he got an idea! When the gang of soldiers 
entered the
room, they found BJ in a soldier costume laughing like a maniac. As his plan went, 
the soldiers
thought he was crazy and locked him in a padded room. When the soldier came to give 
him his pills,
BJ kicked the soldier's leg and broke his neck. BJ rubbed his strait jacket agaist 
the soldier's
keys until there was a rip. BJ ripped the jacket completely off, and took the soldier's 
clothes.
He ran into a nearby room with his weapons. But some guys are right behind. Be careful 
of the
crazy people who believe that they are nazi officers!
	3: Happy Village
	4: Security Halls
	Boss: Main Security Setinel: This turret can be a major threat, but there is much 
health
and items to block the turret's missiles. Just be careful! He can be the hardest 
enemy you fight
if you're not careful!
	6: Second Tech House
	7: Snowy Lands
	Story:
Once again, the switch was a trap. The door behind you slammed shut and locked. You 
hear an
explosion, but it can't have been a trap switch, if it kept you safe that is. The 
door unlocked,
but you were not sure if you wanted to open it. Upon opening, the door released a 
rush of water.
The water was up to your neck, and you see what the problem was. You busted a system 
that
blocked a volcano, and the whole thing blew. You melted all of the snow... but wait! 
That was why
the heat-seeking radar couldn't seek the island! It was completely snow! But now 
the sky is fire!
You now have proof that the island exists!
	8: Water World
	9: Mountain Path
	Boss: Colonel Deathtroop: It is never, ever safe to be in that third tech house, 
but too
late! The colonel knows you there and is planning every second!
	11: Mt. Eislof
	12: Nuclear Silo
	13: Battle Lab
	Story:
You flipped yet another switch, but once you begin to walk away, you notice you're 
being followed
by someone... or something. You turn around and shoot the thing without even looking. 
When you
open your eyes you see a pile of guts on the ground. But before you can finish it 
off, it quickly
rebuilds itself and continues to torment you.
	14: SWARM!
	15: It's a trap!
	Boss: Prof. Mortimer: Final tech house. This guy has made most of the stuff you 
have 
fought, so time for some revenge.
	17: Final route.
	Boss: Kevin Cartosa: You enter the Cave of Might and flip the switch. You continue...

but you know there is the most twisted mind in the world in these caves!
	Story: 
You steal his car and start driving till you notice the world is twisting around 
you. You jump
out of the car, which turned into blood right before your own eyes. Something is 
very wrong as
something flies over your head. You better go get it!
