The WolfMod pack Vol. 1
By NT Games (TheKKKNo2)

Since i've started modding Wolfenstein 3D, i have made several "test" projects, to 
test out new coding effects, and such. But while i'm worked at Crash Of The World 
(this was in middle 2012), these projects has been forgotten, and remained incomplete.

This pack here contains 2 of my Test-mods:

- Sole Survival -
It was an experiment mod. As the title suggests, the main goal of this mod is to 
survive. You start in a big structure, with many ammo and health, and when you exit 
the structure, thousands of enemies comming after you from multiple directions! Also 
contains some mapping desings from one of my unfinished mod started in 2010. (Sadly, 
it's lost...)

Bugs: There are no serious bugs, just the textured floor at the begining of the first 
level. It's because i'm planned textured floor/ceiling feature in this mod, but later 
on i find it unnesescary. Though i didn't disabled this function, just to remain 
unedited. :)

- Wolf3D's 20th aniversary -
Originally, i've wanted to create a 30 level (+ 1 test) level mod, to celebrate the 
20th birthday of Wolf3D. But this one has been forgotten as well, and never released, 
nor any info or picture of it. Contains several coding modification that i didn't 
use often, this mod is pretty unique in my "modding carrer".

Bugs: Same as with Sole Survival, trough i didn't accesed floor/ceiling feature this 
time.

Notable: This mod contains only 3 levels, 2 of the first episode and a test map (alias 
final episode). Don't be confused with Episode 2 and 3, they doesn't include new 
maps!

How to install/play?

- Copy the directories of the 2 mod anywhere you want.
- Copy SDL.dll and SDL_mixer.dll to the 2 directory! (And WCheatSDL.bat if you want)

- Start both game with Wolf4SDL.exe!

Credits:

Sole Survivor and Wolf3D's 20th aniversary mod (C) - TheKKKNo2
Wolf4SDL and it's source code (C) - Ripper
Wolf3D (C) - Id Software, Apogee

Have fun! :)
- TheKKKNo2