ST. BART’S CATHEDRAL
A custom Wolf 3D episode by Lyubomir Ivanov
(a.k.a. “Alexei Voronin” of the Dosgamert community)
St. Bart’s Divine Cathedral – a huge edifice somewhere in the more obscure outskirts of
Amsterdam, known among the locals as “St. Bart”, “Big Bart” or simply “The Bart” – a
place with a strange history, surrounded by urban legends, rumors and feverish dreams.
In the distant 13th century, a local holy man, remembered by history only as St. Bart,
decided that the newly established town of Amsterdam needed a glorious temple as a
symbol of its faith and bright future. St. Bart was a jolly fellow, who enjoyed drinking
beer, spending evenings with his beautiful wife, Lady Maxime, and of course, reading
the Bible. He spent many days reading holy texts, which convinced the people of his
piety (though some rumors say he was just a very slow reader). This is why it was easy
for him to rally numerous peasants and craftsmen to his cause, and begin the
construction of the great cathedral.The edifice turned out to be much larger than expected – probably because the workers’
zeal was too great (or perhaps St. Bart misread the schematics after having a little too
much beer one evening). The completed cathedral was enormous, with numerous floors
both above and below the surface. The building required a whole army of workers to
maintain it, which necessitated the construction of entire sections serving as living
quarters for the people who inhabited it. There were countless rumors of incredible
treasure rooms hidden somewhere within the complex inner structure as well...
The unbearable maintenance costs eventually led to the cathedral being mostly
abandoned by everyone, except for St. Bart, Lady Maxime, and a small number of
priests who still believed in the temple’s divine mission. However, the budding city of
Amsterdam grew in a different direction, and “The Bart” ended up in the city’s outskirts,
far from everyone. When the pious St. Bart passed away, he was buried in a specially
prepared tomb within the cathedral itself. Lady Maxime was the only one who remained
in the big empty temple, and her ultimate fate remains unknown...
The 20th Century
After being forgotten for centuries, interest towards St. Bart’s cathedral was rekindled in
the early 20th century, and the Church initiated large-scale renovation and restoration
works in the silent temple. The temple was brought back to its original shine and glory,
new service tunnels were constructed, elevators were installed, and electricity was
provided. And yet, the vault where St. Bart was buried was never found, and there are
only unconfirmed theories about its possible location...
The War and the Invaders
As the Second World War gripped Europe and the Netherlands fell under Nazi
occupation, malefic eyes have turned towards St. Bart’s cathedral. The evil Professor
Intrinius, the Third Reich’s topmost advisor in matters of archeology and the occult, has
dispatched a special assigned force led by two of his most devious minions – Colonel
Bart van Bozehond and his wicked right hand, the Baroness Maxina het Donker. The
Nazis have now occupied the cathedral and all civilians are forbidden to even approach
it. The invaders claim they are conducting cultural and archeological research, but Allied
Intelligence suspects something more sinister is going on. Rumor has it that the evil
Colonel is looking for the tomb of St. Bart and intends to steal his remains, so that they
can be used in some occult ritual. Though he has had little luck so far, he is finding newclues every day and is getting closer and closer to finding the tomb’s location. As for the
twisted Baroness – she has not been seen in a week, and some informants claim she is
overseeing a mysterious archeological dig under the cathedral. The veracity of these
claims is not confirmed.
It’s Up to You!
Allied High Command worries that the Nazis’ activities at St. Bart could somehow
provide them with an unforeseen advantage in the war, and have thus decided to send
their best agent – William J. “BJ” Blazkowicz, the deadliest Allied field operative. His
mission: infiltrate St. Bart’s cathedral, investigate the enemy activities within, and
terminate the leadership of the Nazi force. Furthermore, BJ has to discover the tomb of
St. Bart and secure his skeletal remains for further study...
Your mission awaits you, BJ! Go get ‘em!PARTS OF THE CATHEDRAL
Level 1 – Underground Tunnels: All entrances to the cathedral are either sealed off or
heavily guarded by SS troops. All except one neglected entrance to the tunnels
underneath the building, an entrance guarded poorly as the Nazi guards don’t think
anyone would be crazy enough to attempt infiltrating from there. Clearly, they have
underestimated BJ’s dedication to accomplishing his mission... Some parts of the
tunnels have been refurbished into storage areas or troops facilities. This place is not
nearly as abandoned as it was before the war.
Level 2 – Grand Foyer: Beyond the sealed-off entrance of St. Bart there is a large and
opulent foyer that was designed to leave a lasting impression upon anyone who would
visit the cathedral, whether they are an ordinary believer or a nobleman. Two sets of
rooms were built on the sides – the Halls of Dusk to the west, and the Halls of Dawn to
the East. Having snuck through the underground tunnels, BJ must now announce his
presence and see if he will receive a warm welcome.
Level 3 – Ceremonial Halls: This main section of the cathedral is where all the
services, sacred ceremonies and other religious events took place. There are several
rooms serving different purposes, yet all have one thing in common – they are infested
with Nazis. It is up to BJ to clean out this unholy blight.
Level 4 – Living Quarters: The large cathedral required numerous workers to maintain
it, as well as to cater to the needs of the clergy. An entire section was dedicated to
these people’s housing, featuring food stores, a dining hall, kitchens, washrooms, and
bedrooms. The Nazis have moved in and use this place as their barracks. BJ thinks it is
about time they got an eviction notice.
Level 5 – Bell towers: Five towers rise above St. Bart, seemingly challenging the skies
above. Four larger bell towers and a smaller spire in the middle, which connects to the
other four via ancient bridges. There is little place to maneuver, and the invaders have
already started making “renovations”. BJ better not have fear of heights.
Level 6 – Sinners’ Dungeon: St. Bart was a mellow man, but he could also be stern
and dispense justice when it was needed. His cathedral featured a dark and nasty
dungeon where he sometimes locked up particularly sinful citizens of Amsterdam, in
hope that they would learn their lesson (which wasn’t always the case). The Nazis were
quite happy to find this place, and even prepared a torture room. BJ does not need to
discriminate – in his eyes, they are all sinners!Level 7 – Cursed Crypt: A plague swept through Europe centuries ago, and
cemeteries suddenly found themselves overflowing. Always concerned for his
community, the good St. Bart offered a partially finished crypt under his cathedral as a
place to entomb the victims of the plague. The place was sealed off, and yet the
superstitious fear of it lingered. It was often rumored that the crypt was cursed, and that
the dead within could arise and go after the living, should their burial ground be
despoiled. BJ has discovered that the Nazis have already attempted to explore this
place. There is no telling what they may have awakened within its dark corridors...
Level 8 – Maxime’s Lair: Lady Maxime, St. Bart’s true love and closest confidant, had
her own dwellings within the cathedral her husband had devoted his life to. There were
actually three separate homes within this area – one for the winter, one for the summer,
and one where Lady Maxime retreated to live in sorrow after her beloved had passed
away. This place has a strange, eerie atmosphere, and even the Nazis avoid entering it.
BJ would have to be brave and face whatever awaits him within, as well as resist the
strange feeling of sadness that permeates every room.
Level 9 – Sacred Vault: Cleverly hidden within the structure of the cathedral’s roof is a
vault that had remained sealed for centuries. Alas, the Nazis have now discovered that
St. Bart’s tomb is located somewhere within this place, and the vile Colonel Bart van
Bozehond is getting closer and closer to finding it. There is no time to waste, BJ! Defeat
this “evil Bart” and find the final resting place of the Saint Bart. You will recognize it by
the skeleton lying within.
Level ?? – Pagan Shrine: All information on this place is based on unconfirmed
rumors. Somewhere deep below the cathedral there is, supposedly, an ancient pagan
shrine dedicated to the worship of the four elements (water, earth, fire, and air). Some
even claim the cathedral was deliberately built on top of it, in order to contain its dark
influence. There is a Nazi archeological dig there now, supposedly under the command
of the twisted Baroness Maxina.SECRET AREAS OF ST. BART’S CATHEDRAL
SHRINES
Contain: Crosses
Numerous small
shrines have been built
within the cathedral by
various priests, monks
and pilgrims over the
centuries, dedicated to
specific saints, or to be
used for special occasions. Many of them have been sealed off and hidden during the numerous
renovations and reconstructions over the centuries, becoming forgotten. The recent invaders have
discovered some of these lost sacred chambers and have converted them into altars to their evil
Fuehrer. It is rumored that these shrines contain numerous precious items, most likely golden
crosses.
HOLY WELLS
Contain: Chalices
Caches of pure and
refreshing spring water were
discovered under the
cathedral’s foundations
during its construction, and
the ancient engineers
recognized its great value,
declaring it to be holy water.
Therefore, they constructed
numerous cleverly hidden
ducts that deliver the
precious liquid throughout all levels of the cathedral. These concealed chambers were often used for
private ceremonies, baptisms and conversions, and are thus rumored to hold valuable jewelencrusted chalices that the divine water was poured into. Their locations remain unknown.TREASURIES
Contain: Treasure chests
Medieval knights, crusaders,
powerful barons, and even
corrupt Abbots used bribery
and coercion to have their
own personal secret
chambers built within the
structure of the cathedral,
their location and means of
entry known only to their
shady owners. There they
stored numerous valuables,
heirlooms and other trinkets
deemed too important to be
kept at their homes. These chambers remain undiscovered, their bounty – unspoiled...
TOMBS
Contain: Crowns
The cathedral is a holy
site, and thus it was often
used as a burial ground
for prominent clergymen,
nobles, and generals.
These sepulchers are
well-hidden and often
completely sealed off
after centuries of
reconstructions, yet some
of them can still be found. Rumors claim that these tombs contain more than just dried out old
bones, that items of great value were often buried in them as well. The clergy has consistently
denied this hearsay, and yet some priests have been known to keep treasure-hunting equipment in
their homes for seemingly no reason...SOUL CHAMBERS
Contain: (unknown)
There are chambers within
the cathedral that were not
simply forgotten, but sealed
off on purpose due to
superstitious dread. These
are rooms where
supernatural events are
known to have taken place
in the past, some of which
were even described as
“miracles”. While they inspired veneration at first, the eerie silence and oppressive atmosphere of
these rooms soon started to fill people’s souls with an unnamed terror. Rumors started to circulate
that these were places where people have died, which meant they were haunted. The fear became
too great, and they were eventually sealed off for good... but now, strange rumblings emanate from
these forgotten corners of the old cathedral. Is it possible that something sinister has awakened
within their confines?
OTHER NOTABLE (NON-SECRET) AREAS
ARMORIES
Contain: weapons, ammo
The Nazi invaders have built several
improvised armories within some of
the abandoned parts of the cathedral,
in order to keep a ready supply of
arms and ammo.INFIRMARIES
Contain: First aid kits
The invaders have also constructed a
few small infirmaries to tend to their
wounded. These are sure to be
packed with drugs, bandages and
other medical supplies. No time to lie
down, just grab what you can carry!
Some “Behind-the-Scenes” Stuff
This whole episode is (mostly) based on an idea I had more than 15 years ago, though I
never really did anything about it until June 2020 when I started working on it. The first
level to be finished was, the first one (obviously), shortly followed by the secret level and
then level 2. At this point, however, I had a bit of a “creative block”, so I just drew the
rough shape of level 3 and jumped straight to the level 9 (I started making the levels in
backward order, in order to break up the blockage). And thus level 3 ended up being the
last to be finished (in August 2021).
Level 8 is a special one. The three “homes” of lady Maxime are based on real-life
locations, more specifically the homes of my great-aunt, grandma and great-grandma.
They are, sadly, no longer among us, but making this map was one way to honor their
memory. I made sure this map stands out among the rest.
Level 10 is an idea I’ve had for a long time too (since the 90’s probably) – though it was
originally intended to be a Doom level. My Doom mapping skills aren’t very good,
though, so I think it’s for the best I turned it into a Wolf 3D map.
I hope you enjoyed this episode. If you like DOS gaming, make sure you find (and join)
the Dosgamert community!The Original Concept
The original plan for this episode was for it to be a part of a whole six-episode pack with
a treasure-hunting theme. Every episode would have ended with the discovery of some
“artifact” (represented in-game by some piece of decoration). The first episode, the
Cathedral, would have housed some “sacred flame” represented in-game by a stove.
Alternatively, it was going to house some “biblical wine” (from the marriage at Cana)
with special powers (represented by a wooden barrel). You get the idea.
And so, every episode would have ended with some artifact, which would have included
some suit of armor, a rack of spears, a flag, etc. I just had to think of some backstory for
these “artifacts”. The episodes were going to include catacombs, an old prison, a
chemical factory, creepy abandoned school, etc.
The idea for special secrets with themes (treasuries, tombs, etc.) also dates back to
these days, more or less. It also had some variations – e.g. each secret would have
been some kind of shrine dedicated to some deity or demon (the latter type would have
had some gory decorations, for sure). The divine shrines would have probably held the
health and treasure, whereas the demonic ones – weapons and ammo. I like to make
secrets special, not just extra rooms where you go to resupply.
And so, after all these years, the only episode (related to this idea) that got made is the
first one, the Cathedral. This is what you are about to play. But who knows, I might get
the inspiration to do the rest as well some day... time will tell.Bart’s grandma wishes you lots of chaingun fun!