


        SpongeBobstein Level Guide

1.SpongeBob's Neighborhood
  Ah a new day and already Squidward is making evil clones of you and your
  friends,boy is your day going to be eventful.

2.The Krusty Krab
  Today's monday and it's time to work,just hope thoseevil clones aren`t 
  there.

3.Sandy's Treedome
  time to visit sandy but you need a water helmet,well I guess Sandy won`t
  mind Sharing, oh wait that`s a clone. Never mind.

4.Sandy's Treedome leaf area
  Sandy isn't here just those evil clones.
  (this is a level from "Quest for the Amulet" from Ian skevos-Jones)
  (this level has a secret exit that leads you to level 19)

5.UberPatrick (Boss 1)
  the most evil creation in Squidwards army resides here.The UberPatrick 
  is a mix-uped Patrick clone that was accedentally mutated but when
  Squidward saw the results the UberPatrick became his favorite minion.
  as a little note even more UberPatricks were made after the first
  one but the original is on this level.

6.The Theater
  time for a movie filled with Mermaidman and Barnicle Boy but then again
  maybe filled with clones.(the movies in the Theater are:An old black-
  and-white movie I don`t know the name of,Mermaidman and Barnicle Boy
  the movie, and Night of the Robot)

7.The Wash
  Time to wash your dirty pants Mr. Squarepants!

8.Franken-Den
  A lair for doodles, but very poorly decorated.

9.Shady-Sholes
  time to see Mermaid man in person but it seems its send in the clones
  night at Shady sholes retirement home.

10.The Merma-lair (Boss 2)
   Well here`s Mermaid man's private hideout with Mermaid man, all his
   gadgets, and those evil clones.
   (this is one of the Levels from Coldfusion only modified just a bit)

11.Underwater Tunnel
   makes you think of Spear of Destiny in those old moldy tunnels but 
   in a new style.

12.Don`t go in there!
   just listen to the name! (hint go in the room with the signs)
   (this level also has a secret exit that leads you to level 20)

13.Doodles
   an art gallery for evil clones but the art stinks!

14.Return to the Krusty Krab
   remember level 1 & 2? well heres a revisit.

15.The Chumbucket (Boss 3)
   Plankton's Restarant only in a metallic sort of way.
   (this is level 5 [SuperClone] from Spear Resurrection by Areyep and Mcs)

16.Giant Anchor 
   this level is just as it suggests only with jellyfish.

17.Ghost Ship
   You`ve just entered the Flying Dutchman's Ship but in order to face him 
   you have to go through his minions first.

18.The Flying Dutchman (Boss 4)
   Here he is in his lair but beware he has more tricks up his sleves than
   any other boss in the game. also watch out for his second appearence
   in the Study.

19.Bunny-Bons (Secret 1)
   This is a kiddy level none-the-less but those ballons and confetty look
   very paculiar just step under them when your health is below 10.

20.Chumworld (secret 2)
   this is a fairly easy level with only a few enemies and 2 Bosses.

21.Squidward's Stronghold (Boss 5)
   here he is Squidward in his big bad house 'o' pain and his army is
   very big here.(note the Squidward mantil is what allows you to harm
   him)
Cheats: for those of you who hate long games.
I+L+M: gives you full health,weapons,keys,and ammo but eliminates your score
T+A+B: tells youn a dumb message
Tab+G+F10: god mode for those who can`t beat a simple Gary.    

This game was made by:Ian Summerfield
creator of Spongebob himself:Stephin Hillenberg