Hey! Here's a small demo of a new Wolf3d TC called HalloWolf. There were a number 
of features that we intended to include as well as more levels, but couldn't due 
to time constraints. And we're not going to say what those features are so that nobody 
will miss them. hah

The story:

I was driving cross-country when I began to encounter some engine trouble and took 
my car in to an auto repair garage. Once inside, I had the good fortune to find what 
appeared to be a Maxim laying on a table with the other magazines in the waiting 
room. I picked it up and began to read from it out loud to myself (a bad habit that 
pops up from time to time), and realized too late that it was actually the Necronomicon 
disguised as an ordinary magazine. Suddenly, the sky grew overcast, and to my horror 
I noticed that the street outside had become filled with licensed denizens of evil, 
who immediately raided a local gun store. Overcome with guilt and with my car still 
in repair, I took to the street and bought a slingshot off a Trick or Treater for 
a handful of change.
 

Featuring Artwork from:
Castlevania: Symphony of the Night
Castlevnaia: Circle of the Moon
Hexen: Beyond Heretic
Duke Nukem 3D
DooM
Blake Stone: Aliens of Gold
Gremlins
Zombies Ate my Neighbors
Cosmo's Cosmic Adventure
Super 3D Noah's Ark
Blood
 
New Artwork (other than what was created by myself) by:
MacD
AreyeP
MidoriMan
 
Featuring Music from:
MedEvil
Nightmare Creatures
Darkstalkers
 
All of the music files were converted from Midis found at VGmusic.

Levels and artwork by The Incredible Pete
EXE and minor artwork by Andy Nonymous

Many thanks to:
- id Software for Wolf3d and releasing its source code
- Ripper for creating the Wolf4SDL engine
- Adam Biser for the Operation: Hundscheisse source code on which this was built

- Brian Lowe for hosting this mod

Apologies for any bugs and unfinished business left in the demo! They'll be cleaned 
up in the full version!


Pete


