

***Wrath Of The Hedgehog: Milly F. Fox Saves John The Hedgehog (a new Wolfenstein 
3D total conversion) by John Hedgehog***

Revised version: jhedge3c.zip
Dated 4/15/01


It's 3235 and people are still quite shaken at what The War Of The World has done. 
The Nazi's plan to attack villages. John Hedgehog was captured and needs to be set 
free. He's at a Camp in the village. You are Milly F Fox, and you have to save John.


Episode 1: The Journey Begins
Levels: 1-10: Village Quarters-
This is where your journey Begins. Milly comes to find a note signed by John. She 
goes off to the village to see that it's guarded by SS, Officers And Guards. She 
will have to try to get past them. Good Luck!

Episode 2: Operation: Get Milly
Levels 11-20 :Underground-
This is where you have to find The Boss in this episode. But the Zombie Soldiers 
will try to stop you at all costs.

Episode 3: More News
Levels 21-30: Castle Hollehammer-
You made it to the castle. You'll defeat the evil that created this war.

Episode 4: Milly's Reckoning
Levels 31-40: Hidden Palace-
You find a Hidden Palace that was inhabited, and now is habited by the SS and Officers. 
You'll have to defeat them.

Episode 5: Time Is Running Out
Levels 41-50: Floating Island-
You made it to the island. Still you have to take out the First General. You get 
more info on John's whereabouts.

Episode 6: Last Resort
Levels 51-60: Village Camp-
You made it. But you need to get into the camp where you'll find John tied up. And 
the Second General won't give up without a fight. Good Luck.

- These levels were previously used in Wrath Of The Hedgehog Part II, but they've 
since been heavily edited. In this latest version, large parts of episode 2 - levels 
7 and 8 have been changed. Several other levels have had more minor changes, including 
the opening level. A saved game from episode 2 - level 6 is included.

- Some changes have been made to the source code, such as ammo, health, ceiling and 
floor colors, cheats etc. The ILM cheat still works, but with different letters. 


- Some graphics have been changed. 

  
by John Hedgehog (email: john_hedgehog3k (at) yahoo.ca)

Thanks also to:
Brian Lowe (email: brian (at) brlowe.globalnet.co.uk) - who helped with the levels and 
source code 
Tristan [NAME REDACTED] - source code help
	

Special thanks to:

Bill Kirby
Id Software
Robert Prince
 

©2001 ID Software/W.O.T.H. all rights reserved