Escape From East Germany
By Wolf King
Escape From East Germany is a mod of the Spear of Destiny mission
pack Return to Danger. As the title suggests in this mod, you fight
against East Germans and Soviets. The game is not designed to be
played in dos and I recommend you to play on Ecwolf. All the levels in
this game are made by me and a friend of mine.
The Story
After completing a mission in Moscow, BJ was shot down over a military base
outside Berlin and taken prisoner by East German troops. As soon as the truck
stopped at the base, though, BJ jumped out and with his knife in hand killed all the
troops guarding him. BJ might as well clear out the base. In order to enter the base,
BJ must navigate through the sewers under the base. Good luck BJ!Enemies
East German soldier: The standard enemy armed with a
pistol, very easy to beat.
Dual Pistol soldier: Armed with two pistols this guy is very
hard on his own but in groups they can be especially deadly.
East German Officer: The officers in the East German
Army. Due to a lack of funds, they carry WW2 era MP40s.
Soviet Officer: Sent from Moscow to train the East German
officers, these guys are very fast and accurate.Scientist: Ex Nazi scientists now working for the East
Germans, these guys are fast and pretty hard in large groups.
Bosses
Chain gunner: Injured in fighting the Nazi prisoners he,
carries the gold key.
Ivan Tamm: A soviet scientist working on a chemical
weapon. Armed with a rocket launcher and a chain gun, watch out. He
carries the gold key.Robot: A experimental robot being worked on by Ivan.
Very fast and armed with four chain guns these guys are very hard. They
carry the gold key.
Cупер: Ivan Tamm’s super robot armed with two chain
guns and two rocket launchers, this guy is super tough. He carries the
gold key.
Hans Hoffmann: The commander of the military base, he is
armed with a rocket launcher and chain gun. Luckily for you, he always
forgets to load his chain gun.
Gas Cloud: A cloud of toxic chemicals, avoid at all costs.A gun US scientists have been wanting to get their hands
on for ages, so try to find it.
Treasure
Chalice with red diamonds: 100 points.
Chalice with blue diamonds: 500 points.
Crown: 1000 points.Nazi Treasure box: By far the rarest treasure in the game
gives you 5000 points.
Important Note
On the last level, if you cannot open the locked door in the room you
start in, fire a shot and a guard will open it for you.
Credits
Doomjedi: A Russian Front graphic.
Kuki: A Project Weltuntergang graphic.
WSJ: Heer Guard Pack base, scientist guard, Castle Totenkopf SDL.
graphics, and some miscellaneous graphics.
Majik Monkee: Chain Gunner.AstroCreep: The Ultimate Doom and Doom II music packs.
There might be others, but at the moment that’s all I can come up with.
Well thanks for taking the time to read this. Now go blast some
Communists!