The dropship buckled as it passed through the Mohordian atmosphere. The GORE Army 
Soldiers of the 23rd Regulars Battalion, B
Battalion, 2nd platoon would be among the first troops to land on Mohordia, a United 
Planets planet that had strafed GORE
military troop centers, shuttle launch sites and anything important. That happened 
one day after GORE assassins neutralised
the leaders of Beta Sectors. Several thousand GORE Servicemen died on the day of 
the strafings. Revenge now was pumping
through the veins of these Soldiers, ready to kill any UP soldiers or even civilians.


1 day earlier

Troop sergeant Renko sat on the dusty terrain on the moon Jaiclops. Leaning against 
the dropship as he sipped his jooklap
(a tasty drink with a stimulating effect). In just a few short hours he and his men 
would board the dropship, heading
straight for a huge and important United Planets base on Earth. He put his jooklap 
down and began to think of battle plans
to order to his men. His jooklap started to shake. Then the earth exploded around 
him. His jooklap was all over the place.
The five men who were playing basketball were no longer doing so. They were burning, 
screaming in agony and trying
vainly to pat the flames off their raw bodies. He saw a lone starfighter bearing 
the UP logo. It banked straight to the
barracks holding the 34 other men (one GORE platoon is 40 men, 5 are dead and the 
other is watching it happen). The fighter
then dropped a single napalm bomb, ripping through the barracks roof and burning 
the men alive. He stood up, aimed his
plasma rifle and fired at it.

"Infantry weapons don't work well against air." Spoke the starfighter pilot, aiming 
at the sergeant below.
"That doesn't mean air doesn't work well against infantry." Spoke the pilot. He pulled 
the trigger.

The next day

Renko sat in his seat. His face was scarred with the flame blasts from the Napalm 
bomb aimed at him. He had witnessed the
starfighter kill 39 people in one of the most painful ways possible. He wasn't ready 
to forgive the UP. He charged his
Plasma Rifle with a cell pack, the signal for all the other soldiers from the 2nd 
platoon to do so. The troop bay was
lit up by a green light. The soldier unbelted them selves and ran forward as the 
ramp opened...

Captain Spiers had only just been alerted to the presence of the GORE Soldiers. It 
was night. His weary men had just woken
up. He ordered that his Platoon's .30 machine gun be loaded with full metal jacket 
rounds, heavy and strong enough to crush
bone. The .30 machine gun had a view of the small trench the GORE troops would have 
to move through is they wanted to survive
the wrath of the normal defence guns. He unstrapped his 30.06 sniper rifle. They 
were quite unpopular these days because you
had to cock it every time after you fired to load another round in the chamber. He 
liked his, despite this problem for the
basic ideal of it: one shot in the torso and your man will go down.

"Go go go! Move it! Head for that trench over there!" Renko shouted.
His men spilled out of the troop dropship. Light flares were popping colored smoke 
everywhere. One airborne flare landed on
a small mound, lighting up a machine gun. Renko saw this, to his terror.
"Get down!" He screamed. The .30 machine gun started chattering bullets into the 
crowd of GORE soldiers. The skinny soldier
affectionately known as Fats took the brunt of the machine gun, disentegrating as 
the bullets chewed him up. His soldiers
jumped into the trench. A new .30 machine gun swivelled around on it's mount to face 
the GORE soldiers.

"FIRE!" Shouted Spiers. The large machine gun opened up on the pack of GORE soldiers. 
Bodies were dancing as bullets shoved
them. He watched in glee as the soldiers were cut to pieces. A small object was thrown 
from the crowd of soldiers and
bounced onto the machine gun. From Spiers's point of view there was a loud bang, 
a bright flash and the machine gun's barrel
was bent and smoking. The gunner was knocked back and his white uniform was stained 
with blood. Several GORE soldiers poured
into the gun pit. One corporal took the force of the attack and his body shuddered 
with every energy blast that burned into
his body. Another flash bomb flew in, it's explosion knocking two Star Troopers to 
the ground. Spiers aimed his rifle at
an enemy gunner who was pounding the earth around them with his light machine gun. 
he pulled the trigger and the gunner's
head snapped back and the dead gunner crumpled onto his gun. The wounded Star Trooper 
gunner fired two shots from his pulse
rifle then threw a small Vulcan grenade at the advancing GORE troops. There was a 
small bang and two shrapnel riddled GORE
soldiers fell to the ground.
 "I'm outta ammo!" he screamed. The Star Troopers began to walk to the base where 
escape shuttles were ready to fly out any
survivers, for this battle was lost.
 "Come on, we are leaving." Spiers said the the wounded gunner.
A Gore Soldier threw a flash bomb. The gunner pulled himself up and started to stagger 
to the 2 surviving Star Troopers.
The flash bomb landed behind him and went off, sending him flying through the air. 
He landed on a Star Trooper, who looked at
the dead gunner's blank face.
 "Oh no! Tommy! Die!" Screamed the Star Trooper. He stood up and fired his microwave 
pistol at the advancing troops, knocking
one to the ground. His body shuddered twice then fell. Captain Spiers ran to the 
base, all of his soldiers dead.
He discovered to his horror that the shuttles overloaded with men had taken off. 
He positioned himself at the top of the
base.

It was all over now. The elite GORE Marines had landed, ready to finish off the survivers 
and storm the base. Spiers looked
through his sniper scope. He was ready to fulfill his death wish. He zoomed in. Some 
Marines and muddy soldiers were singing,
celebrating their victory. He aimed at the head of a Marine and fired. The bullet 
cracked into the marine's head. The mobile
suit the Marines use are so big and heavy the shot that kills the user doesn't knock 
the suit down. Blood spilled down the
suit, splatting on a terrified soldier. Before the soldiers could react Spiers cocked 
his rifle and shot into soldiers.
The soldiers scattered, leaving two soldiers killed by one bullet and a dead marine, 
the suit he was wearing still left him
standing. One GORE Marine started firing at the window Spiers was leaning out of. 
He knew if he surrendered, they would
torture him to death by leaving him standing against a torture device tied to it 
with razor wire. Spiers aimed carefully
at the Marine and fired a shot, ripping a bullet into the Marine's head. He looked 
around a noticed a GORE soldier below him.
The Marine must have been distracting him. The soldier aimed with his Plasma Rifle 
and fired a shot. The sniper in the window
fell backwards and a scorched white helmet fell down.