WEAPONS

Malkyren Death Tazer: The original "stun" tazer was invented on Earth hundreds of 
years ago. Colonists on Malkyr have found
a metal capable of conducting enough charge to kill someone without the tiny metal 
wires burning out. Buzzes guards to
death quickly and it's electric charge can flow around the armor of Mech suits.

Microwave Gun: Rather than make a weapon that discharges rays of solid tipped heat 
rays, this actually shoots a high energy
ray that gives the cells of whatever it touches enough energy to produce a concentrated 
amount of heat capable of burning
through flesh causing minimal pain. Can heat straight through Mech suit armor except 
for Magma Soldier suits (these are
super expensive).

Plasma Rifle: A compact weapon with deadly accuracy, high damage but slow rate of 
fire.

Support Machine Gun: A projectile weapon that fires the antique but reliable 7.62mm 
round. Requires power cells to run the
moving parts and cool the barrel. A deadly weapon with high damage and rate of fire.


ENEMIES

GORE Army Soldiers: The basic infantryman. They are well trained, common soldiers 
armed with a Microwave Wrist gun.
They go down easily and their uniforms offer little protection againts Tazer blasts.


GORE Marines: People volunteer directly into the Marines and undergo 15 grueling 
weeks of training. They wear Mech suits
that make them go faster and move in hazardous environments. The mass is their downfall 
as they are huge targets. They are
so huge that when they die the force of the shot that kills them isin't enough to 
knock them down so they die standing.
They may be huge looking and pack heavy firepower but they die easily.

Gore: The leader of the GORE Faction, this crazed scientist wishes to take over the 
whole Beta sector, the section of planets
where the GORE Faction came from but is ruled by the United Planets. He carries 2 
projectile pistols and carries an
experimental serum with him that regenerates damage caused to whatever it is injected 
to until the nanites (microscopic
robots) inside run out of regenerating power and self destruct (taking the user with 
it).

HEALTH
Health can be increased by using syringes (walk over them). Green syringes contain 
adrenaline (heal some health) and red
syringes contain weak regenerative nanites (heal a lot of health).

On the left of the health indicator is a heartbeat indicator. When you are healthy 
the heart has a high pitch and low
frequency (the heart pumps a lot of blood slowly, this is normal if you aren't doing 
much). If you are very hurt, there is a
low pitch and high frequency (the heart pumps overtime to get enough blood to the 
body.