Known game Glitches:
First off, thanks for downloading Crash bandicoot 1, based of the game of the same name by NaughtyDog, which is a fan-made conversion for Wolfenstein 3d by ID Software. 

First glitch known, Holowalls: This can occur when aguard is placed inside of a map, they can be used to enter an area without a door to access it, but Unfortunately you can get stuck in the holowall if 
a 
guard surrounds you on outside of a wall, so always defeat any guards defore entering a holowall.

The game's old-style music cannot be heard on today's computers so you may have to download a program called: Vdms, and then run the program, by clicking with the right mouse button in order tobe able to 
run with VDMS (after it is installed by downloading and unzipping it) but I forget the name of the website, so you may either have to: Find the website yourself, or just play with no music, It's your 
choice.

If any other glitches occur, simply turn off the game, if the glitch occurs after the game is off, then you may either have to close the program from the program manager, or simply restart your computer. 
I am sorry if you experience any glitches, but remember this is an old port, so this may or may not occur at all.

Also, I do not list everything that can go wrong with the game, if you need assistance, you may need to visit: www.wolfenstein3d.co.uk/ in order to find out more about how to play wolfenstein (or in this 
case Crash Bandicoot)

Also if you wish to customize anything, simply follow any of the key instructions of the screen, and you may also customize your listening preferences or controls in the proper screens.

Crash Bandicoot Level Guide:
Episode 1: N. Sanity Island
Level 1: N. Sanity Beach Difficulty: 3/5
Simple enough, walk around with wumpa fruit and hurl them at the monkies. Just look out fot the gem, It can take you to a secret level if found. (find secrets by scrolling walls and pushing the spacebar 
continously until a section of the wall moves inward revealing the secret) There are only 2 secrets in this level, and the should be easy to find (hint: they are only in the rock rooms, and not forest 
halls)
Level 2: Jungle Jumble Difficulty: 3/5
Now out of the beach setting, you will start to notice more of those snapping plants. They like to burp at you, and anything else that resembles them will too. Simply wait long enough to get the 
slingshot, and the end of the level will seem easy enough.
Level 3: The Great Gate Difficulty: 2/5
This is one great gate all right! 3 doorways to enter! (hint, go to the right when you first enter the gate to lead to the Gem to open the next set of Gates)
Level 4: Boulders Difficulty: 4/5
Turn around and run! There are 7 boulders total in this level, you need to run like the wind or find the secret cave exit in order to survive!
Level 5: Cavern Catastrophe Difficulty: 2/5
Simply put, that wave after wave of Tribesmen will be attacking you in these cramped caverns, it gets much easier when you get the Slingshot though.
Level 6: Gem Troubles Difficulty: 4/5
Either way, there is no easy way to finish this level, either walk into the exit room, and defeat the lone guard telling all the other ones "Hey! come get me, I'm an idiot! or go all the way and find the 
Gem needed to escape and then say: "Hey! I just defeated two tribesmen and I'm still an Idiot! Either way, the smart choice does not exist on this level.
Level 7: Native Fortress Difficulty: (Wrong path) 4/5 (right path) 1/5
Like the Great Gate, this level will have 2 directions for you to go at the beginning, either way leads to the exit, but one is a hoax that will lead you to nothing but an extra life, so just hope you 
pick the right choice on your first try.
Level 8: Native High Rise Difficulty: 1/5
This level is full with Tribemen, their pet snapping plants, and the occasional monkey, this area is nice and open, but with all of the enemies, you may wish you were still in level 7.
Level 9: Boss 1, Papu Papu Difficulty: 2~3/5
Papu Papu to some means: Pass me that dish again, mate! We think it means: Pile of fatty-ness and achey-ness! Simply stay behind the mask collections, and he should never be able to hit you with a 
boulder 
from his staff.
Secret 1: Monkey Island Difficulty: 3/5
Monkies! and more Monkies! simply throw as much wumpa fruit as you've got at those silly simions, this level is basically not a real level and is just here to annoy you and get your score alittle beefed 
up.

Episode 2: Up the Mountain (full version only)

Episode 3: Ruins to Rubble (full version only)

Episode 4: Waste Distaste (full version only)

Episode 5: Mean Machines (full version only)

Episode 6: Castle Cortex (full version only)