Hundenberg "Manual" - by Majik Monkee
-------------------

STORY
-----
Born in Paris, France, Alaina Laurent, was orphaned at an early age when both her 
parents were killed in an industrial accident. Afterward, she went to live with her 
aunt and cousin, Aristide, a member of the French Resistence, who would teach her 
many of the combat skills she learned. By the time the Nazis invaded Paris, she was 
a full member of the resistence, and fought to repel the invasion. She was critically 
injurerd when she was shot in the chest, just above the heart, and Aristide managed 
to secure her transport out of Paris and to the United States, although it cost him 
his life. Eager to continue the war effort against the Nazis, upon recovery, Alaina 
accepted an invitation to serve the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) in the hopes 
of becoming a full agent.

With the support of OSS Colonel Patterson, Alaina is sent to investigate the site 
of an old WWI German camp outside the small village of Hundenberg. Reports of strange 
creatures and disappearing locals indicate possible enemy activity, although these 
reports have yet to be confirmed.

Your mission: Investigate the enemy camp...
------

OVERVIEW
--------
Some of my manuals can get pretty wordy, but this is only a four level mod, so why 
make you spend more time reading than playing? Controls are exactly the same as Wolfenstein 
3D, and all of the enemy types are based off of enemies from the original game. The 
only thing to look out for that might be new to you is stationary traps. Don't get 
too close, they hurt (some of my mods in the past used these a little too abundantly, 
that's not the case here). There are no keys hidden in pushwalls or required secrets 
in this mod, there's also no secret level, so don't look for one!
--------

CREDITS
-------
Put these in the closing screens when you win the mod. If you can't win it, feel 
free to email me or track me down at the forum with questions on what comes from 
where.

COMMENTS
--------
This will most definitely be my final mod. I still enjoy the Wolfenstein community, 
but as far as leading a project like this again, I just don't have the time anymore! 
Look for me at the DHW forums, though, and if you'd like to shoot me an email, feel 
free to at matthewmdmerrill (at) yahoo.com.

-Majik-