Welcome to Mad Cow 90  Err... make that BSE90 (the most unoriginal title in the history 
of gaming).

Preamble:

I have been working on and off making maps for this set pretty much since the day 
I first got a hold of MapEdit (I love you Bill Kirby!).  
While it would be easy and melodramatic of me to say this has been a work in progress 
for almost 20 years, it hasn't.  
To say my first Blake Stone maps sucked is an understatement.  I've always wanted 
to do a full 90-level Aliens of Gold set.  
Back in 2003 when I first started working on acktung! and Halls of Stonehenge I decided 
I wanted to do a map replacement set 
for all games using the Wolf3D engine.  The dream was reborn.  For the most part 
I have accomplished that other that Rise of the Triad 
and I can't see myself doing that set.  Oh well.  Should dig up the OBC/Corridor 
7 stuff, but that will have to come another day.  
Hmmm... same applies for my Noah set.  I digress.  Most of these maps have been made 
over the past eight years.  I guess that means 
I am averaging a map a month.  Oy.

I guess the first thing I should mention is that there is a reason why I call this 
project an experiment.  No one else I know 
has worked with Blake Stone: Aliens of Gold to the fullest extent.  I have no sources 
to draw from and had to find answers to 
my own questions when I ran into technical issues or mapping anomalies.  Will there 
be bugs within these maps?  Sadly it is 
probably inevitable.  So as much as I hate to say it… PLAY AT YOUR OWN RISK.  So there. 
 I have done my best to test each 
level and to do so using as many variables as I could.  With 90 levels of intense 
game play (love my ego?), it is inevitable 
that I missed something.  I could have sent these levels to my cohorts for testing, 
but who has time to test 90 levels?  The 
other thing is expertise.  Most of my friends and acquaintances aren’t completely 
in tune to all the nuances of testing BS 
anyway.  I am not going to ask them to jump into that kind of learning curve for 
a one-time set of levels.  If you find bugs, 
I apologize here and now.

Technical stuff & support.

Well… Here’s my way of a-thinkin’ bout this.  If you can play Blake Stone comfortably 
on your PC then you should be able 
to play these levels as well, as nothing in the design should mess with your system. 
 This is just a map replacement set 
after all.  If you haven’t played BS: AoG on your current PC and discover issues in 
getting the game to run properly that 
simply isn’t my problem.  I haven’t tried this game on newer O/S’s or any O/S that isn’t 
part of the Windows environment 
- ain’t gonna either.  I am not testing it with DOSBOX or VDMSound or any kind of 
simulator or emulator software.  That 
is why this set of levels comes unsupported for anything technical.  I am willing 
to fix mapping errors, but for PC 
related issues you should talk to your friends, neighbours, and any or all eggheads. 
 There may even be a Blake Stone 
community out there (I have never searched) or some kind of message board where you 
can get a response to an issue you have.  
I don’t tend to blog solely because I am tired of people passing fiction off as fact 
or the uninformed posting senseless 
comments and reviews.  I have better things to do with my time than read tripe.  
Ooops… off on a tangent again.

Installation is relatively simple.  This file was probably in a zip you downloaded 
(my super-genius brain figured that 
out all by itself).  Also in that zip would be maptemp and maphead file.  These are 
what need to be placed into your 
BS: AoG directory.  Of course this will overwrite your original maptemp/maphead file. 
 You might want to consider 
moving the original maphead/mapead file (or rename them) so that you can go back 
to playing the original whenever 
you want.

The zip should contain three files.  The maptemp and maphead files (redundancy is 
a lost art) are two and this 
baby err... readme makes three.  I thought about including a batch file that allows 
you to cheat, but changed my mind.  
If you already know how to add parameters, add –powerball to your command line on 
the file you use to start the game. 
 When starting the game, press both shift keys when the “JAM” screen appears and let 
them go when the “PG13” 
screen appears (unless of course you are under the age of 12 and have no parental 
supervision then you should 
go play with your Lego).  A full list of cheats can be found on-line.

Known bugs:

Anomaly #1: I have seen instances where once perscan drones have imploded and I have 
left and then re-entered the area in question that the debris has disappeared and 
an invisible wall is left in its place.  For the most part I have narrowed down the 
cause and tried to remove any instance of this occurring, but I may have not caught 
all instances.  Don’t confuse this with overhead lights that are impassable.  I used 
those sparingly solely because they are confusing/frustrating.  I am also checking 
to see if this has anything to do with projectile spewing aliens.

Anomaly #2: All games using the same base engine of this era suffer from the same 
thing – object overload.  Have you ever noticed that if you kill a large number of 
enemies in a small area that they will flash or disappear/re-appear?  The main cause 
is that there are too many objects on the screen.  If you collect dropped ammo and 
food tokens and pick up health/ammo/treasure then this should rarely happen (in other 
words – DO NOT CHEAT!!!).  The nice thing about the BS engine is a lot of the graphics 
from dead guards gets removed once you leave a room (if the game’s object count is 
too high).  This helps even things out.  I have done my best to try to prevent this 
from happening (see guard block floor code, as an example)

Anomaly #3: This hasn’t happened to me often and I can’t replicate the scenario, but 
I have had an issue with objects and scientists being passable – that is, you can 
walk through the scientists or you can walk over objects without picking them up. 
 Weird.  I have been able to remove all instances that I have found, but there is 
apt to be more.   A lot of this has to do with placement of moving guards (and those 
pesky fluid aliens) and I have tried to exhaustively test this phenomenon.

How about a tip or two or 17? 

TIP #1: Use the auto-charge pistol to blast open crates.  Conserves ammo as not all 
crates will open.

TIP #2: Use the auto-charge pistol to open alien canisters.  Why waste ammo?

TIP #3: Dr. Goldfire can appear only in certain areas outside of boss levels (and 
of course on all boss levels found on the ninth floor of each episode).  Much like 
a bad habit, he can come back once he’s been kicked.  Don’t want that to happen?  Don’t 
re-enter the room.

TIP #4: Enemies with guns can shoot and hit you from anywhere.  Many of the aliens 
cannot shoot through objects like tables as their projectiles will explode upon contact. 
 Don’t stand near the object as you can still get splayed by projectiles.  You can 
dispose of these kinds of aliens by using your auto-charge pistol (if you are patient). 
 Yes, ammo saving is a life-style choice.

TIP #5: Your auto-charge pistol is silent – use it wisely (where have I heard that 
before?).  You might occasionally warp into an area where the dumbass guards are 
deaf and facing the wrong way (or are they just listening to their iPods?).  Oh what 
fun to pick them off like ducks in a shooting gallery.  Oh my, the SPCA might not 
like my using ducks as they are pretty little critters and need protection (mmm… orange 
sauce).  Insert liberals into that sentence instead (j/k).

TIP #6: If you cheat your high score won’t get recorded.  Ha ha ha ha ha ha  weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!!!


TIP #7: If you are the kind of person who thinks shooting a guard in an open door 
space to keep the door open is an awesome offensive strategy (and it was TWENTY YEARS 
AGO) then you will hate me.  Well, maybe not me, but you will hate some of these 
levels (and you might question why my parents had kids).  Thanks to what we call 
a ‘guard block floor code’ I am able to prevent all guards/enemies from walking in 
certain areas.  And yes, I will force you (on occasion) to actually enter rooms and 
do battle like a true warrior instead of like a pasty-assed wimp.  Oooh… that was 
harsh!  J

TIP #8: And the nastiness continues… If you think that the whole world should always 
unfold directly in front of you, then delete these levels now.  I am sick, sick, 
sick, SICK of one-dimensional game play.  Yes, it is fine to have some levels and 
some areas where guards do not sneak up from behind you or come at you from two different 
angles.  Some levels.  SOME!  Put 90-levels of that crap in one place and you have 
created overkill.  There are traps in these levels – don’t kid yourself.  However, 
in the name of balance, I don’t do it repeatedly either.  I have tried very hard to 
mix things up.  Some of you will like it, some will hate it.  Life rolls on.  Overall 
levels do get more complex as you progress through the game and so do the challenges. 


TIP #9: Some enemies (I am not telling you which ones as the Security Guards and 
Human Mutants would not like it) will shot at you from a distance while they will 
try to punch if you are up close.  What to do?  Try to manoeuvre (as I confuse my 
American friends with actual English) so that see you at a distance, but then duck 
and come out shooting when they have moved close enough in and start trying to hit 
you.  Quick and easy disposal.

TIP #10: Fluid aliens are a PAIN!!!  But I love using them in maps (as a lunatic 
giggle wells in belly).  They are predictable too in their own way.  Ever play Peek-a-boo 
as a kid?  Ever thought you would be playing it in a space station?  I’m not totally 
sure, but I think that was a hint (or tip).

TIP #11: In the painfully obvious department: if you have ever blown up a volatile 
transport (and hey… who hasn’t?) you know that on occasion they leave toxic chemicals 
in their wake.  Standing in waste does minimal damage to your health, but try to 
blow them up in open spaces so you can manoeuvre around better.

TIP #12: A nudge is as good as a wink – say no more (sheesh… couldn’t make it through 
writing the readme without one cheesy Monty Python reference).  It pays to be pushy. 
 If you don’t like the direction that a scientist or volatile transport is heading, 
you can give them a gentle nudge or stand in their way to encourage them to move 
in a different direction.

TIP #13: There’s a penguin on the telly!  Okay… make that two Cleesey comments… oops, 
I mean cheesy.

TIP #14:  Remember that eating too many moon pies will give you a sugar rush and 
try to take it easy on the beer and hooch as they mess with your aim.  Oh wait… that’s 
in Redneck Rampage.  Never mind.

TIP #15:  Switch hitting is a good thing.  No, I am not talking about baseball or 
sexuality.  If a barrier controlled by a switch is down then an enemy can walk across 
(unless there is a school crossing guard near by – and yes, the jokes get worse) the 
fallen barrier.  Should the player (hey… that would be you!!!) hit the barrier switch 
while the enemy crosses, the enemy will get fried.  Yup.  Dead as a door nail.  That’s 
not saying much as I have yet to see a living door nail.  Well, maybe Dick Cheney, 
but please don’t tell him as I don’t want to get sued.  So, in short, flicking a switch 
up and down can sometimes kill a few bad guys.  It can also kill the scientists. 
 That is a very bad thing.  VERY bad.  Naughty, even.  Mind you, hunting with Cheney 
has been known to have almost the same effect.

TIP #16: While electrospheres can be a nuisance (hey, the loyalists speak the truth) 
they also move in one of three patterns.  They either move north/south, east/west, 
or diagonally.  Since they can only cause harm on contact, taking them out with your 
zapper… oops… I mean your auto-discharge thingie makes the most sense.  The only time 
they are really a pain is when they move diagonally as their path can be a little 
hard to judge.  Because I am mischievous, you will occasionally get warped into a 
spot where you are surrounded by the little suckers.  Have no fear; they will not 
touch you if you don’t move.  Try shooting them before moving.  Unless you are into 
pain.

TIP #17: SPOILER!!!!  In the final episode all the secret levels are accessed from 
the ninth level.  Each secret level requires you to beat a boss from a prior episode. 
 The interesting thing about the sixth episode is that when you kill ANY boss it 
will tell you to go shoot those random power generator thingies.  These do NOT exist 
on the secret levels.  The 10 generators only exist on level 9 and you need to get 
past Goldfire and the Reptilian Warrior in order to find them.

A word to the wise, the inane, and the mentally challenged:

Save early – save often – save in multiple slots (you’ve been warned).  There is a reason 
I am suggesting this.  I normally save at the beginning of each level in one slot 
and then in two or three slots while in the midst of a level.  I do this in case 
I get stuck or put into an uncompromising position from which there is no escape. 
 There are sections of BSE90 that are difficult although most have ways to survive 
depending on your ability to think and your reflexes.  More on that later.  Saving 
will (and let’s all hold hands and say this together)… PREVENT YOU FROM HAVING TO RESTART 
YOUR GAME/LEVEL IF SOMETHING BAD HAPPENS.  I’m getting preachy again, can ya tell?


Should you cheat?  YES!!!  Should you cheat?  NO!!!  Hmm… my father was right.  I 
am a contradiction in terms.  I would definitely run the game with the cheat parameters 
enabled.  This will allow you to warp, get extra ammo, or use the other cheat features 
in event you find yourself stuck.  That is the only time you should consider cheating 
(unless you want to unlock all floors and just play your favourites).  Why shouldn’t 
you cheat?  This game was designed to be an enjoyable challenge.  Cheating completely 
takes away from that.  That and there are some minor technical issues.  If you don’t 
pick up ammo and health it messes with the object count and can cause problems within 
the game (and make the plasma discharger useless when you need it most).  In testing 
I have also seen instances of where when I kill one of the bosses (Acid Dragon, to 
be specific) the gold key card does not appear, making it impossible to finish the 
level (happens only when I am in God mode).  You’ve been told.

The scientists are your friends!  Always remember that you can get ammo and food 
tokens from the friendly scientists (and that the loyalists will attempt to fry your 
sorry little ass).  On some levels it is extremely important to get some help from 
the scientists as ammo and health are not always in abundant supply.  In fact there 
is one secret level with no health or ammo to be found – just a whole lotta scientists. 
 That level is a trip on the highest skill.  I hope that I placed enough scientists 
on each level so that it is possible to always get the 50000 point bonus for not 
killing any of them (the game randomly assigns how many loyalists are on a level 
so don’t blame me – lol).  I would highly suggest you try to earn that bonus solely 
for the reason that on some levels it is extremely challenging.  Well, that and you 
don’t want to make me cry.

Who says you can’t go back?  If you find yourself low on supplies you can always head 
back to the elevator and return to an earlier floor and grab some goodies.  A little 
forethought in this regard can go a long way.  And since my niceless level is nearing 
an all-time low you can expect to find some levels where returning to the elevator 
is a major challenge.  It really helps mix things up as I hate stagnation.  

Barriers and their switches are fun.  In the information window (lower left of your 
screen) it will state on what level the barrier has been deactivated when hitting 
the switch.  Most switches activate barriers on the same floor.  In a few instances 
they will drop the barriers on a secret level or vice versa.  Sometimes raising barriers 
is a good thing.  Who says that we shouldn’t let walls come between us?  We should 
build barriers and not break them down!!!  I’m not talking racial injustice or anything 
of a sensitive nature.  Sometimes impeding your path with also impede the path of 
the enemies on the other side of the barrier.  Sheesh… that was almost a hint!!!


As you probably know teleporters can take you to spots within a level or to one of 
the secret levels.  Because I am a devious little prick you really should consider 
SAVING before entering a teleporter.  It’s not mandatory… I am just making a subtle 
suggestion.  Normally you will just go to another section of the map full of sunflowers 
and jellybeans with little cherubs gaily prancing around.  Other times you will get 
eaten by alien life forms.  So trust me… save.

And now a little note on one-ways doors, teleporters and other points of no return. 
 With the use of teleporters and one-way doors I have been able to add numerous elements 
of game play to make these levels interesting (and by ‘interesting’ what I really mean 
is ‘devious’ or perhaps even ‘evil’ in a non-Satanic way).  The downside is that any 
time a player is forced to make a decision it opens up a ton of problems from the 
mapping perspective.  To some degree I have to trust that a player will be smart 
enough NOT to enter a one-way door or teleporter with little or no ammo or health 
as you have no idea what is on the other side.  Granted, sometimes you will have 
no choice but to use the teleporter or on-way door.  So it goes  ;)  Hmm… would now 
be a good time to tell you to save once in a while?  Hmm…?

Keycards!!!!  I know you were waiting with baited breath eagerly anticipating this 
section.  You probably know that you need the red card to get to the next level (and 
if you didn’t, you do now, unless you are forgetful, then why read anything anyway?). 
 The other cards are green, blue, yellow, and gold.  Gold cards will only be found 
on the boss levels (I’m lying).  The other cards can be found on most levels (now 
I am not lying… unless I am lying about lying or not lying about not lying – damn double 
negative).  Sometimes, because I love you all so much, I will place multiple cards 
of one colour on a level and let you decide what door to open first.  Will it be 
chaos?  Will it be treasure?  Will you save your game in multiple slots like I keep 
asking you to?  Will Bruce Willis ever win an Oscar?  If you ever decide to do some 
designing, I can tell you that the ability to have multiple locked doors on a level 
adds a very interesting element to game play (as long as it isn’t over done).  Keycards 
can often be carried from one level to another and don’t expect to be able to do that 
often.  Normally it isn’t part of the game play.  I did experiment with that, but 
thought it would confuse or frustrate players as to why they are missing a keycard 
or have an extra.  In the few cases where I did use it, you probably won’t even notice 
as it was done with subtlety.  Hmm… when have I ever been accused of being subtle?


The episode structure is constant.  There are eight levels along with a boss level 
in each episode.  There is also a secret level (called level 0).  One of the bonuses 
of this set is that each episode features five extra secret levels (levels 11 through 
14).  Some of the bonus levels are fun and/or sadistic and potentially visually pleasing. 
 If you are into maximum point scoring, these are highly suggested.  I have always 
(and always will) do interesting things with the design of secret levels.  Some you 
may love and others you may hate.  So it goes.  Some people will hate what others 
love and vice versa.  What is a guy to do?  Oh, that’s right… I don’t care.  I can’t 
please everyone so I tried to include enough deviation so that most people will enjoy 
most of the levels.  With 90 levels I had to use as much variance as I could between 
the levels so that it doesn’t feel like you are playing the same level repeatedly. 
 I did my best to toss as many game play concepts into the game as possible.  With 
all the different enemies (and their respective AI) mixed with all the special features 
I was able to create some interesting situations.  Some require thought, others require 
reflexes, and some require luck – lol.  I did my best to showcase each in its own 
way.  Yeah, so it goes…

I think it took me longer to write this readme than to design all the levels.

There is one thing about this set that bothers me.  Yeah, just one thing.  My original 
intent was to re-name each level, which required some simple hex editing of the EXE. 
 Then it hit me that I shouldn’t be distributing the EXE even if I am not including 
any of the other original game files.  What this means is that some of the level 
design won’t quite correspond with the existing name of some of the levels.  So be 
it.  It isn’t a huge thing, but I apologize for not taking that into account earlier.


I believe in pacing oneself.  I cannot stomach mods where every feature/item/texture/enemy 
is thrown at the player in the first couple of levels.  Where is the build up?  Where’s 
the anticipation (and why does that name ring a bell?)?  You will notice the difficulty 
will build as you progress through the game, although every once in a while I will 
throw a level at you that is on the easier or harder side.  Just trying to create 
balance through imbalance.  Huh?  So it goes…

I have always loved creating interesting secret areas within a level.  Sadly, with 
the cheat function it makes finding secrets impossibly easy (huh?).  Don’t cheat (and 
save often!).  Secret areas are not a huge deal in BSE90.  Sure, you will find your 
usual health/ammo/treasure/switches/teleporters/etc., but not in abundance. 

If you have the original documentation that comes with the game then you might want 
to give it a little bit of a read through to help familiarize yourself with all the 
different aspects of the game.  Especially comes in handy if you want to do some 
customizing to make playing smoother or for some technical stuff that might help 
your game experience run a little cleaner.

For those of you in the Wolf3D community who are SDL-only addicts, please don't ask 
me if this set is available in SDL.  It's not.  Seriously.  It's not.  Nope, not 
in SDL.  Nada.  Ain't happening.

Another thing to mention is getting perfect percentiles.  Hey… 50000 points is 50000 
points.  There are a few levels that will not allow you 100% completion unless you 
teleport in from another level (I’m thinking those would be all secret levels leading 
back to normal levels, but I could be mistaken… actually I am frequently mistaken… 
usually for an adult).  In most, if not all (hey… is this where we get the word ‘almost’ 
from?) you will see a door into an area that you haven’t been able to access (usually 
a one-way door).  That’s not exactly a hint, but close enough.

Could the end be near?

The obligatory thank you's:

Bill Kirby, Warren Buss and all the people who have worked on MapEdit (THANK YOU!!!)

AReyeP and Andynonymous for allowing me to bounce ideas or seek advice/help
Brian E. Lowe for hosting all BS sets on his little yellow site
Eric/Dark Wizzie for Wolf3D Haven forum (http://wolf3d.darkbb.com/forum)

One final word...

Do with these maps as you may.  If you are a modder you have my full permission to 
use these maps as a base.  
I only ask that you do NOT give me credit in any way.  If you can learn anything 
about mapping then all the better.  
I laugh at how some modders steal (oops! I mean borrow) stuff from mods, give no 
credit and go into a petulant 
frenzy (petulant frenzy!!! petulant frenzy!!!  I MISS FRANK ZAPPA!) when someone 
uses their work without giving 
credit.  I only preach two things.  Learn and create. Once you have mastered those 
you can then foster 
(unless your idea of fostering is calling all newbie work 'crap' and in that case 
I fart in your general 
direction).

That will be my final Monty Python reference.

Peace,
ack
6/23/11