Thank you very much for downloading Abandon 2020, a faithful restoration of my first Wolfenstein 3D mod.
I conceived this mod as more or less a map set in September 2004, but as I went along, it only felt natural to expand
the scope with whichever possibilities I had. Back then, I was blissfully unaware of numerous editors, only having
MapEdit 4.2 and WolfEdit at my disposal. I soon advanced to FloEdit, but had numerous issues in getting some of the
work I had made in WolfEdit to fit; I suppose it had to do with the formatting, but as I said, in those days I simply did
not know my way around the technical side of things too much. In many ways I still don’t!
Running into compromises even made me change the storyline; when I found out about seamless level flow versus
episodic flow; all levels were now episode-by-episode. When I found out I could not undo certain things to sprites,
suddenly we were stuck with “Nazi biscuits” and “radar tables” and who knows what else. Officer frames that made
no sense… Mutants, which were only replaced with Mr. Wolf’s Uzi guards at the last minute, all these things, only
made for an uneven and confused gameplay.
Even when I was in the progress of making the mod, I knew the outcome would be terrible and so many things in the
mod were held together by a very thin thread. Furthermore, MapEdit 4.2 had insufficient definitions, causing most
textures to be “UNKNOWN XXXX” which is where my memory played its part in remembering all these numbers and
which walls we were talking about. Another thing I was not aware of at this point was two things, actually: Difficulty
and position. I had no idea that Guard 3/S/W meant guard on skill 3, standing west. I was just guessing. For a long
time, I used any guard that was 1/S/S because to me, it looked believable enough. As such, gameplay gets cluttered
and uneven with only skill 1 guards represented. That said, I have seen countless instances where skill 1 guards rule
the roost and yet the authors got away with it; mainly ack and Arielus. Then again, their sense of placement and
overall gameplay were absolutely miles beyond where my mind was at this time.
For Abandon 2020, I have rectified some of these mistakes, and added a slew of skill 3 and 4 guards, especially in areas
where gameplay got ridiculously difficult. I also remember making a map and being satisfied with it, only to run into
the “Too many objects” bug. I frequently went over the 399 object limit, and had to remove items. For some strange
reason it was always the food and ammo pickups that got the boot. I regret that immensely, as the gameplay suffered
heavily from being way too difficult without any sufficient replenishment of health or ammo; so ammo and health
pickups have been added as well. Floor codes were also an alien concept to me; but all levels have now been fixed so
the player can play a level with a natural flow rather than having a tons of deaf guards waiting for you, or to have 130
guards chasing you from the get-go.
Furthermore, Abandon 2020 uses AlumiuN’s executable originally made for Frantic Passages, Stranded and KowTow,
and is currently in use by me for my next mod. This sees a number of enhancements to Abandon’s original gameplay,
in which – at last – seamless level flow is produced, in addition to an increased ammo rate that should keep the Hitler
ghosts and numerous Hans Grosse’s at bay.
Abandon 2020 is much more in the vein of a map set or a “classic” type set, as they say. Too many of the objects and
guards that featured in the original 2004 release were more or less tacked on near the end. The only objective from
the get-go I knew I wanted was the laboratory scenario, including nuclear barrels and wall textures to fit. As such,
many objects were replaced rather than added on, making for earlier levels looking out of place. If a potted plant
featured at E2M4 but became a laboratory table at a later time, then its placement in e.g. a castle or a dormitory
makes little sense. This I only realised after the fact. The “new” sprites have now been added as separate objects.
Abandon 2020 merges the earliest surviving set of levels I made (released as Abandon v0.0 in 2006) and these levels
are featured early on in the mod. All other Abandon levels survive, with the exception of E2M2 which was only
constructed out of anguish of corrupting a different level. All other levels are maintained, in a more humane, and
hopefully more fun, manner for the player to play. I hope you will enjoy the set.