 

THE STORY:
Thank you for downloading "The Ultimate Revenge", the Wolfenstein 3-D's add-on.
It's the year 1959, fourteen years after the Second World War. People think the war 
is over for good. However, they aren't aware of incoming danger. The former Hitler's 
co-workers established an underground formation, which objective is to continue Führer's 
totalitarian plan. They organize some terrorist attacks, which make citizens more 
and more anxious. Pentagon tries to locate the hideout of the group, and after a 
few weeks they succeed. But the truth turns out to be even more anxious. Experts 
find out that in the Neo-Nazists' headquarters there are conducted some terrifying 
experiments that are about to revive Hilter and his worst allies. The US army must 
intervene immediately and stop the Nazis before it's too late. But who will manage 
to do it? Who will infiltrate the fearful corridors and rooms? The answer is simple 
- someone who already knows who his enemies are. Captain B.J. Blazkowicz!
So there you go, Captain. You are sent to Castle Wolfenstein again for the ultimate 
revenge. You go for six completely new missions. It's not going to be easy, but remember, 
the world counts on you. Its future is in your hands now. Good luck!

WHAT'S NEW?
	difficulty level names
	items (e.g. healthblood and landmines)
	maps (54)
	menu names
	mission names
	typeface

DEFAULT CONTROLS:
1-4 - toggle weapons:
	1 - knife
	2 - pistol
	3 - machine gun
	4 - chaingun
ALT - strafe
ARROWS - move
CTRL - shoot
SHIFT - run
SPACE - open doors and pushwalls

PROGRAMS USED:
•	Borland C++ 3.1 by Borland International (for the source code)
•	ChaosEdit 1.27 by Andi (for graphics & screens)
•	Dev C++ 4.9.9.2 by Free Software Foundation (for the source code)
•	Flo's Wolfenstein Editor 2.0.0.5 by Florian Stöhr (for fonts, graphics, sounds 
& sprites)
•	MapEdit 8.4 by David Huntoon, Bryan Baker & Warren Buss (for maps)
•	Microsoft Paint by Microsoft Corporation (for graphics, sprites & walls)
•	Microsoft Word 2000 by Microsoft Corporation (for this file)
•	Nero Wave Editor 1.0 by Ahead Software (for sounds)
•	Wolfedit 2.1 by Bill Kirby (for sprites & walls)
•	Wolfenstein 3-D by Id Software (the game)
•	WSF Font Editor 1.0.0.2 by Stöhr Software (for fonts)

MAPS AND MOST OF THE GRAPHICS BY:
Sebastian Dudko
cjblacklime@gmail.com

 1992 by Id Software
 2009-2010 by Blacklime Industry
