The Obligatory README

First off, I should mention that this map replacement set comes completely UNSUPPORTED. 
 Should not be an issue as there are only two files enclosed.  Due to some spam problems, 
all email addresses listed in previous READMEs from my other works have been disabled. 
 Also, as of June 10th, 2008 (such a mystical and magical day) I have stopped posting 
and logging into all forums on-line, so private messages sent to me will never get 
read.  Just so ya know.

What you have here is not exactly the first three episodes of what will eventually 
be released as acktung 2 (how's that for a completely unoriginal title?).  I would 
think that 20 or so of these levels will make the final 60-level release, but at 
least five will not.  I have included four or five levels that have been released 
in other projects, but have never been seen in their original form.  Some friends 
asked to see them, so here ya go.

These levels are also not in the order they will be in the final release.  Consider 
this just a 30-level set slapped together without rhyme or reason.  I put this little 
ditty together as I wanted a couple of the veterans to play through the levels so 
that they can answer specific questions as I have some concerns over a few issues 
involving game play.  I have put together a new EXE, but because I am a purist, I 
do not really want to use it with these levels.  I like pure Wolf to be just that 
- PURE Wolf!  I might just create two releases.  One with the new EXE and one using 
the original.  Time will tell.

The levels themselves are very much in my style.  Some easy, some hard, but I have 
been able to complete them all on IADI without saving starting only with a pistol. 
 Mind you, I know all the tricks I put into the levels, so I know the easiest way 
to play through them  :)  There may be some graphic overload if you kill to many 
enemies in the same area, as per usual.  Also, I would be a little careful of entering 
rooms through a locked door opened by a guard.  Should it close...

So when will acktung 2 be released?  Probably in about a year.  I have about 50 levels 
completed, but I know some will get axed and I need time to test the living crap 
out of them all.  I have offered my services to a couple of mega projects, so it 
could even be longer depending when these get off the ground.

On a side note, it amazed me how it has been five years since the release of the 
original acktung!  I just wanted to take a second to thank all of those people who 
have sent me complimentary emails and messages.  I still chuckle at how it has managed 
to stay on the DHW Top 10 Charts for so long.  I really do appreciate the support 
that level set has been given!

Finally, the obligatory thank yous...

Brian Lowe - for keeping the on-line beacon shining
Brother Tank, MCS, and AReyeP - for DHW and for being a really swell group of guys

Adam Biser - these levels were made with WDC (it rocks!) and for his being easily 
as swell if not sweller
The original line-up at iD
Anybody else I forgot

Peace,

ack    01/24/09
