		The Official Military 
		World War II Handbook

	This Book is to assist you on your war missions with Nazi Germany. It is to be concealed 
from the Nazis and classified to civilians until further notice.  If you are to be 
captured by the nazis, this book is to be destroyed and disposed before you are checked. 
 If you fail to conceal this information, the military will eliminate your enlistment 
record.  When your mission is over you will be sent back to your place of origin 
never to return to any US Army branch.

		The story so far...

	It's near the end of 1945 --The fall of the third reich.  Hitler is dead and US 
Military officers are packing up and going home.  While you are on the plane, you 
overhear Colonel Randy Gerber talking about some "Stein" guy.  You go up to him and 
ask what he's talking about, and he says that the war isn't over yet.  A man named 
Gerolf Stein, who was Adolf Hitler's top commander, was angered by the USA winning 
the war.  He bought Wolfenstein, made it his base and took command over all of Germany. 
 He drafted civilians, and orded all soldiers and what were now trained civilians 
to perform genocide on all other countries except for Nazi Germany's allied countries 
in the war.  You listen to him talk on and on about the situation.  About fifteen 
minutes later, he talks you into going back to get better information.  You think 
to yourself about how stupid you were --going back right after you finished the damn 
thing, but by the time you come to your senses, it's already too late.  You're signed 
up and on the next flight to germany.  Once again, you risk what you were more than 
lucky to spare --your life.  You enter the building, and the door locks behind you, 
so there won't be any going AWOL now.  Looks like you're going to be encountering 
much more than information...
		


		Items found in Gerolf 
		Stein's House of Wolf...

	There are primarily a lot of nazis in the House of wolf including:

•	Guards:  These guys aren't equipped with thick kevlar, but they will pack a punch 
if you let them.  They always drop their clip when you kill them.
	Weapon fired:  Pistol


	 
•	SS Bodyguard_Sergeants:  Tougher than the the guards due to their armor, size and 
weapon, they can take you out if you don't fight, but it sure won't be too easy to 
fight back!  They drop a clip when killed, and sometimes their machine gun.  
	Weapon fired:  Machine gun
	 
•	SS Bodyguard_Captains:  Even tougher than the Sergeants due to more expensive armor 
and weaponry.  Take 'Em out and you will be lucky. Weapon fired:  Flamethrower
	 
•	A word on the past two guard types:  there is a noticeable difference between these 
elite guards.  The following is displayed:
	 
	Captain (left) -- Sergeant (right)  

•	Officers:  Fast moving and predominately accurate,  these guys really listened 
to directions while they were in their nazi training, because they will kill you 
if you don't strive to fight back.  They aren't tough at all.  Two lead jolts in 
their system will put them to the floor.  However, they strafe like a dodgeball champion 
with a world record.  
	Weapon fired:  Semi auto pistol

	 
•	Mutants:  The sad thing is that these were once innocent people who had their life 
taken from them, but they'll take yours from you if you don't get a grip on who they 
are now and fight back immediately!
	Weapon fired:  Chest mounted semi pistol

	 
•	1Superguards:  Guards aren't too bad, are they?  Sure.  Maybe not, but what happens 
when you give a big one expensive armor and weaponry?  Superguard happens, and if 
you don't watch your back, then "you're dead" happens!  Weapon(s) Fired:  Dual chainguns

	 
	1=  Acts as a boss in episode 1
	Weapons:
	
•		Knife:  The knife isn't just your last hope, you can also use it as a stealth 
weapon.  when you use the blade, it doesn't cause a nazi parade. Choosing a knife 
when a guard is facing away is a good idea.  You taking it into a room full of SS 
bodyguards is a great plan...  Genius! (sarcasm).
	 



•		Pistol:  Your simple but deadly friend who doesn't like taking on bosses.
	 


•		Machine gun:  A reliable weapon that you can count on for anything.  Even bosses 
(not recommended but will do if it all comes down to it).
	 
•		Chaingun:  The most powerful weapon.  It eats up ammo fast, but it kills bosses 
in a primary manner.
	 
•	Ammo:  Ammunition clips that are unused come with 8 rounds, and sometimes, you'll 
find ammo boxes, but not as often, due to the greater quantity of 25 rounds.
	 

	Health:

•	Medical kits:  These will do as expected of them:  Raise your health by 25% (you 
can't pick them up when you are at full health).  Tip:  You should wait until your 
health is at least down to 75% to pick these up, therefore you can get their full 
benefit.  F.A.Q. by novices:  "Can your health go past 100%?"  If it could, than 
our resource book editor wouldn't put in the tip.
	 

•	Food:  There is some really good cooking done in germany.  A chicken dinner with 
peas and mashed potatoes sounds good to you any day of the week.  This raises your 
health by 10%.  Tip:  You should wait until your health is at least down to 90% to 
pick these up, therefore you can get their full benefit.
	 

•	Dog food:  Yummy to dogs, yet "edible" to humans, dog food raises your health by 
4%.
	 
	Traps:  

•	Landmines:  You need to keep your eyes peeled for these if you want to stay alive. 
 They are very hard to spot.  FAQ by novices:  "Can you disarm them?"  The term is 
"dodge" for they can not be "disarmed".
	 











































