
                                ...another chapter in WW2 history...it opens opportunity...

    SECRETS OF OFFENBACH

January 19, 1944. The castle of Offenbach were infiltrated. Many alarms were peeping, 
officers shouting and running, and guards in chain reaction. The infiltrator was 
you, B.J. Blaczkowicz. But that's long time ago... Now it's february 4, 1953. The 
war is over, and you are relaxing home in USA. Then, at night, your phone rings. 
It's the boss of OSA (Office of Secret Actions) who want you to travel back to Germany. 
He tells, that the "Neo-Nazis" are begin to come, and under a secret selection two 
days ago, they won - with same threads as the original nazis did in 1933. The country 
is just getting better, and then they will come again. He ask you to ruin their new 
project "Todeskrieg", mission is to take over Denmark, Holland, nuff said - whole 
northern Europe. You agree. The next morning you say goodbye to your wife, and fly 
in an airplane to Berlin. Here you walk in ruins, crying people and poor ones. You 
know, that it is the nazi regime who did this, so you are filled up with anger now. 
You have your best and first pistol, Luger P38 in your suitcase, which you put down 
on some grey bricks. These brick are the corridor entrance to Castle Heruthaus, where 
you heard that Schabbs, which you also killed, has became alive again. Causes are 
unknown. Many say, that it's Doctor Mengele, but he is in court by now. Otherwise 
it can be himself? Well, he found Fettgesicht, who leaded the ruined project "Giftkrieg" 
in Castle Offenbach two years ago. He is now founded, and cremated. He will be in 
holyness for the nazis. 

Though, many says that Castle Heruthaus is haunted. It is not sure that it's true, 
but who knows?

The castle is splitted up in several parts, all with a different mission.

:::LEVEL GUIDE:::

Levels 1-7 - Remmisch Part. Here you must eliminate Kolbengesicht Grosse, the brother 
of Trans, Hans and Gretel Grosse. He is at the 7th floor. The part itself has many 
different places. It starts out in tunnels, dungeons, bunkers and then offices where 
you will face him.

Levels 8-17 - Wolfgang Part. Has many different sections, mostly of everything. Some 
levels only have one kind of guards. Your mission here is to get to the chemical 
cargo lair, located at 17th floor. Here you will meet Captain Jürgen Griffin, who 
is a brave man in nazism. He only has a chaingun, and is not so difficult. The difficulty 
is, that he is surrounded by driving trucks, grey guards, SS and much more! This 
part has also some chemical places. Level 13 is a "waste-tunnel". And some places 
in the earlier levels are mostly "chemicalized".

Easier guide:

Levels 8-9 - Infiltration. Many of the guards are officers, mostly also scientist-trained 
officers. Cause there is lab areas in some places.
Levels 10-12 - Main Bunkers. Mostly in style with normal bunkers.
Level 13 - Toxin Refinery. A waste tunnel, with chemical stuff all over.
Levels 14-16 - Much stuff. Level 15, you enter a bricky complex, which leads to a 
big lair. And level 16 is a huge outpost.
Level 17 - Griffin Office Level. In here, Griffin is, of course. After you killed 
him, you can pass on.

Levels 18-24 - Zumzeig Part. Kind of Normal Bunkers. Not so much dead and elimination 
about this. But it's a place, where mostly guards and SS are. Here is a maniac. His 
name is Lukas Jäger, leads some few nazi castles in South Germany. He is in his office 
at the 24th floor.

Levels 25-28 - Bögelhuus Part. Full of nice places. One of the "upper" places, which 
means that officers and SS and runners are here mostly. This part is guarded by a 
man named Krell. He is a colonel. He is guarded in a huge armor, made of deep iron. 
He has two chainguns there and two miniguns. 

Levels 29-33 - Theuprastus Part. Oldish style. A good reminder. It ain't a normal 
place. It has many oldfashioned places, and is a kind of cemetary. Though in high 
elevation!

Levels 34-39 - Sicherheit Part. Not any boss - cause this is the barracks, where 
the security units are.

Levels 40-49 - Drichwarft Labs. Guarded mostly by runners - easy. Though, many SS 
is also in labs, cause many of the SS' took exams in laboratorywork. Here is the 
boss Rasmus Schabbs. He is not like his twin-brother, who created mutants. Not so 
good creating, but smart as hell, also with inventions. He invented cyrings to his 
brother, but he made some stronger and more powerful ones to himself. These are his 
weapons, at the last lab.

Level 50 - Evilism. The old Offenbach office where the Todeskrieg plans are kept, 
now go steal them! After that, you can run out and free Germany!

Levels 51-60 - Secret Levels. See if you can find 'em!

::: CREDITS :::

Havoc - Coding. The kickstarter for this game.
Flamer46 - Additional Coding. Don't know if that's "additional"...but he is coder.

Jack Ryerson - Enormous inspiration from Chemical Warfare, levels inspiration, base, 
EXE ideas.
WSJ - Graphics, support.
MajikMonkee - Some Sprites.
Brian - Testing, Support, Distribution.
John Bucksnort - Inspiration.

::: WORDS :::

Yes, I mean that Wolfenstein Episode 1 starts in 1942. Some of my other games maybe 
say something else, but they suck. 

Therefore I made this one. I think that Episode 2 and 3 are the most episodes people 
use as the base. Allways Schabbs, just look at Totengraeber, Schabbs 2000, and John 
Bucksnort's games ( not all of course =) ), and...you name it. I got this idea, with 
huge inspiration from Chemical Warfare and the brain behind it, Jack Ryerson. That 
game is based on Episode 4, but this will though be based on Episode 6. I don't think 
that's so much used...I only remember Countdown to Disaster.

This game shows my other sides. Not so many changed sprites, mostly walls and sounds 
changed. Coding is high, just look at the new enemies which isn't there, and...the 
other things.

And this is the first of some games in the serie "Leaved Wolfenstein". I take Episode 
6, then 5, 4, 3, 2, 1... and a little Special Edition maybe.

But that's just plans...now go play!

...or else...

Possum Fart.
Oops! 
Possum Trot.










