                    SPEAR OF DESTINY

             THE GRIENHOLDT COVENANT PART 1
                      "THE PLAN"

It is late 1944...Several of Hitler's minions, fearing the worst, realize that Germany's 
chances of winning the war are rapidly disappearing. Along with a powerful industrialist 
by the name of Hans Greinholdt, Arzt Schabbs, and his evil colleague, Dr. Quarkblitz 
engineer an evil plan to take control of Germany and the rest of the world in the 
event of Hitler's almost certain defeat...A plan of unheard of evil, to enslave humanity...


   It is now 1945 and the war has been over for some time...you have been called 
to Allied HQ for a briefing on a mission classified top secret. Aerial photos taken 
over The Black Forest in recent months have shown lots of questionable activity around 
the long abandoned Castle Greinholdt. Cargo shipments and trucks coming and going 
almost daily. There have long been rumors that some of Hitler's elite guard had survived 
in an underground movement, but up to now, no proof could be found. Documents uncovered 
after the war had made reference to an evil alliance between members of Hitler's 
staff and a plan to overthrow the government of Germany, but no details were ever 
found and no one could be tied to the "plan". 
Off with you now to the castle and discover it's dark and evil secret....


   In part 1, you will experience 9 new levels of carnage, bloodthirsty guards, and 
lots of bloodthirsty mutants. Beware of the Dreaded Ubermutants, and the nasty tempered 
Transgrosse as well, for Schabbs has enlisted their help...There are a few other 
surprises. And it is rumored that "Fat Face" is in residence as well! There is a 
secret elevator that will take you to a floor filled with extra treasure and other 
surprises...If you survive the first 8 levels, you'll find yourself in Schabbs lab 
and holding area where he creates his "boys" and a final dramatic confrontation with 
Schabbs himself! Good hunting and beware....Things will never be the same!




The Greiholdt Covenant  Part 1
  "The Plan"

The beginning of a new Spear of Destiny Adventure
by John Bucksnort
beta testing by Harry Mass Sr.

A Mutant Co. LTD production
The Mutant Co. is: John Bucksnort and Harry Mass Sr.
HEY MO!


Comments?    Tom (at) jbucksnort.com or john_bucksnort (at) yahoo.com


Many more great Spear and Wolf sets by Harry and myself are available at
my website:  http//:www.jbucksnort.com


                     LONG LIVE THE SPEAR!!
