Hasty Architecture (and a Lost Medical License)

=== Story ===

Regular surveilance of Dr. Schabb's cabin following his survival and extraction from Operation Eisenfaust have revealed some interesting developments in the area over the past week that require investigation.

The Doctor has remained secluded within the building, the door only opening for his guard to accept deliveries of food and equipment. Our reports show that within just a week a large two story building was erected over a nearby deteriorated garden shed.
It's unknown how they were able to construct the building so quickly, as our operatives in the area were driven out by the suspiciously number of soldiers present during construction, but we suspect it was built to house the treasures it is rumoured that Schabbs' has horded. Post-construction population has been distinctively lower, but not unguarded.

Blazkowicz, it is imperative that you breach the building through the roof and confirm the reason for it's construction. If our suspicions are confirmed, try to collect any valuables you can access.

Under no circumstances should the Doctor be harmed. His survival is important to [REDACTED]

---

The game starts with our hero B.J Blazkowicz, blowing a hole in the stone roof and dropping in on two guards who were conversing in the room. As the debris clears, B.J. can hear the muffled and hasty yelling in the rooms to his left that confirm his entrance was about as stealthy as expected.

It was time to discover what was going on with his old mutant-loving friend.

=== Authors Notes ===

This game was made in a few days for the Macenwolf Game Jame on Wolf3D.net. I took the opportunity to have a fiddle and explore the options available to people wishing to use the engine as a base for a new game. I was overjoyed to see the various extras and customizations available for projects, and set about trying some (particularly the wall modifiers!).


The maps are small, but I've tried to keep to portraying a simple narrative (which is accompanied by the rather simplistic story above) in them. You're looking at a game that will either take you through two levels, or three levels, and makes for a total of four maps. If that doesn't make sense, play the game!

---

Worth noting:

You cannot get 100% treasure in the opening level without cheating.

---

Thank you:

id Software for creating Wolfenstein 3D and spawning a decades long love for many of us.
MacPlay for creating the Macintosh version of Wolfenstein 3D.
Serpens/Nexion for MacenWolf, a grand idea of a project!