THE FULL AND COMPLETE MANUAL FOR

GUILD OF DARKNESS
EPISODE I: THE LEGEND OF SATCHMO

Table of Contents

Description	Page
Story	2
How to Play	6
Complete Zone Guide	10
Upcoming Episodes	14
Dedications Page	15































STORYLINE
Chapter 1 – The Beginning of the Quar

1992-1998: The United States and Russia have become fast friends since the
Cold War.  After the Soviet Union fell and Communism was destroyed, everybody
was happy.  The President of the United States, Franklin B. Bradley, had just
signed a treaty of land purchase with Russia.  They had promised to give us
a small part of Siberia for only $10 million.

The fallen communist government was now a little over 10 years into its
demise.  Many of the communist soldiers became refugees of Russia and usually
headed to cities around Siberia for sanctuary.  The Russian government
believed these loyalists would freeze off anyways.

They were wrong.  Dead wrong.

Among these refugees was a bulky man known by the Allies as the Quar.  The
Quar had an amazing sniper ability and was dangerous with weapons.  After the
Cold War, the Allies and Russia were going to ask the Quar to join them in
their quest.  Yet, they couldn't find him anywhere.

Over the next 5 years, the Quar (with a few soldiers) worked from dawn to dusk
in building a castle large enough to house them and rebuild the Soviet party
from scratch.  In July of 1997, the Quar and his soldiers (totaling about
a thousand) finished the castle and named their new force the Guild of
Darkness.

Among them, the seven most loyal and powerful soldiers were to be made his
commanders.  These seven were sent for one reason and one reason only, to
revive the Communist empire under the Guild's name.

October 2000: After enough funding and help from their Siberian friends, the
Guild of Darkness launched a surprise attack on Moscow right before
Halloween.  Bosses Houstophocles and John Bono Smithy Satchmo's armies easily
overtook Moscow and a few weeks later, Bosses Isis, Janey, and Vultican had
conquered the cities of Minsk, Kiev, and Kirov.  The Russian Government was
at its knees.

Three months later, Russia became property of the Guild of Darkness.  Word
reached throughout the U.S. to rescue Russia from Communism once more.

Chapter 2 – The Conquering
February 2001: The Guild of Darkness easily overtook the United States after
attacks on Kirov, Kiev, Archangel, and Moscow itself.  The United States was
forced to retreat only a few months after arriving in Russia.

It seemed that the impossible had happened.  Russia defeated the U.S.  But
the Guild of Darkness weren't through with Russia.  With enough funding,
the Quar wanted to conquer the world.

To the U.S., it was a crazy idea.  Sure, the Guild of Darkness was tough,
tough enough to defeat the most powerful army in the world, but the U.S.
did rough up Russia in the few months it was there.  What could they do?

April 2002: It was a year into the world conquering, and the Allied forces
rested in shock.  The Quar had already conquered Mongolia, China, all of
Asia, and all of Eastern Europe.  The Quar's Guild of Darkness only lost
two battles, both to the combined forces of Israelis, Egyptians, British,
and American soldiers.  Unfortunately, in their third attempt, the Guild
easily squashed the four-raced soldiers and conquered Egypt and Syria.

It seemed there was no stopping the Guild of Darkness.  In a little more than
a year, the Guild already had a little more than half the world.

Along the way to see how Egypt was doing, something caught the Quar's eye.
It was an ancient artifact about 4,000 years old.  It was known as a
hieroglyphical eye, or so his scientists told him when he returned to Russia.
They were known as the power artifacts.  The power artifacts were to give
someone immortality to anyone who could find all seven of the power artifacts.

This gave the Quar a smile.  One down, six to go.

Chapter 3 – The Artifact Acquisition
November 2002: Allied forces were finally informed of what the Soviet
Scientists said about the artifacts.  Unfortunately, it could've been
too late.  The Guild had already conquered all of Africa, Asia, Australia,
South America, Central America, and most of Europe.  Only the U.S., Canada,
Britain, Spain, Israel, and France stood in the way of the conquering of the
world.

The U.S. was doing horribly in the war.  The Guild had squashed their forces
almost everywhere they went.

When moving back one day, an American cadet bumped into a glove-like object.
American scientists had identified the object as the claw of Houstophocles.
Houstophocles was a communist warrior (now a boss of the Guild) who lost
his arm during a battle in Spain.  His arm was like a weapon with nails
as sharp as a tiger.

The U.S. knew that the Guild already had five artifacts.  The sixth one
wouldn't be that far away from them, so they had to protect this last one
at all costs, before the Quar (which they finally know the leader after
all this time) would be granted immortality and be able to create an
eternal kingdom.

Without further ado, an American pilot flew above somewhere in the Western
part of the U.S. and dropped the claw into a man-made lake in New Mexico,
hoping never to be found.

May 2003: France, Spain, and Canada were quashed by the guild.  Only the
U.S., Britain, and Israel remained.

Israeli Intelligence Officers had located the final artifact, the Silver
Star of Solomon, a biblical Israeli king.  Knowing that the Guild would
want to capture it, they kept it hidden in the shadows where no one would
find it.

But to the fortune of the Guild, their engineers had just built a new
tracking device, designed to pick up a magical signal from one of the
seven artifacts.  It discovered only one, which was in Israel.  The Quar
had assigned John Bono Smithy Satchmo to retrieve the remaining two
artifacts.

A week later, John Bono's forces attacked the Israelis.  For some
miraculous reason, the Israelis were able to hold their own against the
Guild's henchmen.  Yet, the Guild outnumbered them almost 20 to 1.  They
had no chance.  After three days of fighting, and heavy casualties on
both sides, John Bono went after the artifact directly, dodging mines,
sneaking through traps, and skulking soldiers until he finally captured
the Silver Star of Solomon.

To much victory, John Bono quickly snuck back to his underlings as they
retreated and headed back to Russia.  They had captured the sixth artifact.

As a reward, the Quar had given him a new permanent home, a castle in France.

John Bono would also be given the artifact sensor to find the last artifact.

His mission was simple: Find the last artifact, retrieve it, and haul it
back to Russia.

The final artifact was none other than the Claw of Houstophocles.

Chapter 4 – The Claw of Houstophocles
January 2004: Three years into the war, the Quar and his Guild has begun
invasion of the only country not under Guild control, the U.S.  The Guild
had conquered all of Western U.S.A.  This gave John Bono Smithy Satchmo
the chance to search for the artifact that he had detected two weeks earlier
without any resistance.

John Bono and his three buddies arrived at the Albuquerque Holiday Inn
in Albuquerque, New Mexico.  Heading to the beach, they searched frantically
for the Claw of Houstophocles.

Alliteration Dude, one of John's most trusted henchmen, found the claw
of Houstophocles lying underneath the sands in the beach.  He grabbed it and
threw it to John Bono as they all rejoiced with great pleasure.

On the plane ride to Russia, Chief Ramalamadingdong wanted to make himself a
cheese sandwich for lunch.  He walked to the kitchen and opened what he
thought was the refrigerator.

Unfortunately, it was the hatch to open the plane.  All the cargo that John
had, including the Claw, flew out the plane and, coincidentally, into some
place in France.

By coincidence, the Claw had somehow landed right ontop a 59-floor building
in France, the castle of John Bono Smithy Satchmo.

Returning to the castle, hoping that no one would know about this flaw, John
Bono had just been informed from Bob Bob Bob Maloogalooga that the claw
was not in a random location but ontop of their castle.

Woohoo!  All they had to do was take the claw again and go to Russia.  Easy
enough, right?  Then the Quar and the Guild will be granted immortality.

But the U.S., seeking a final attempt to possibly turn the war around, has
located to claw of Houstophocles ontop of the French castle.  The U.S.
has sent you and you alone as a spy to find the claw, retrieve it, and
return it safely to U.S. HQ.

When you arrive in France, armed with a knife, John Bono and his buddies
are informed of your arrival.  They laugh with pity to watch you get past
the guard dogs of the moat leading to the castle.  Only one thing stands
between you and the castle, the guard and the final dog swarm.

John Bono laughed at the small dot on the screen.  He knows that you have
been sent by the U.S. to retrieve the Claw to the U.S., thanks to Guild
spies.  Now all that's left to do is eliminate you.

Provided of course, you don't take them down first.
As you see the castle in the distance, chills start running down your spine
as you know you must do this for freedom, liberty, and for turning the
invasion around...
Since all of John Bono's planes are in battle, John Bono is awaiting from an
official from Russia to take the Claw and head back to Russia to grant
the Quar immortality.
You have only 12 hours before the Russian plane arrives in the French castle.
You must have the claw by then.  Go now soldier, and hurry quickly!


HOW TO PLAY

MONSTERS
Though the same type of graphics, the monsters are named different in this game to 
fit into the cold war.  The bosses look similar, but maybe have different features 
(i.e. Hyperbole is Hans Grosse with brown hair).  HP damage is per turn.

BONO GUARDS
Bono Guards are the second weakest creatures in the game.  They're easy to beat no 
matter what level you're on.  Armed with a pistol, they'll give you a pistol or 5 
ammo.

Baby Level: 15 HP
Easy Level: 25 HP
Normal Level: 35 HP
Hard Level: 55 HP
Speed: SLOW!!!
2 points for a victory
Can drain from 5-50 HP.  (1-10 HP on Baby)

BONO DOBERMANS
Remember the Doberman pinchers?  That's what these guys are. Armed with just their 
teeth, they're easy to beat, yet very fast.  Very dangerous in open areas.

Baby Level: 1 HP
Easy Level: 10 HP
Normal Level: 20 HP
Hard Level: 25 HP
Speed: Quick
1 point for a victory
Can drain from 2-15 HP.  (1-5 HP on Baby)

BONO OFFICERS
Hey!  What are those white blurs?  They're officers.  Super fast, and super tough. 
 One can go across a 64X64 map in 5 seconds!

Baby Level: 40 HP
Easy Level: 50 HP
Normal Level: 60 HP
Hard Level: 90 HP
Speed: BLUR!!!!
10 points for a victory
Can drain from 30-80 HP.  (6-20 HP on Baby)



BONO WALKING UNDEAD
^C00 Undead soldiers that pack quite a punch.  Armed with chestguns, they'll send 
you to Siberia if you're not careful.

Baby Level: 25 HP
Easy Level: 55 HP
Normal Level: 75 HP
Hard Level: 95 HP
Speed: Fast
5 points for a victory
Can drain from 25-100 HP.  (7-25 HP on Baby)

BONO MACHINATORS (SS)
Descendants of Hitler's SS, these Machinators trained the same way as the SS, and 
are tougher, faster, and stronger than the original SS.  Their machine guns are locked 
on and ready!

Baby Level: 60 HP
Easy Level: 100 HP
Normal Level: 120 HP
Hard Level: 200 HP
Speed: Fast
20 points for a victory
Can drain from 40-200 HP.  (10-50 HP on Baby)

BONO STONE GUARDS
These guards are the only changed creature graphics in the game, besides the bosses, 
as well as the power of their plasmaballs!

Baby Level: 80 HP
Easy Level: 120 HP
Normal Level: 200 HP
Hard Level: 300 HP
Speed: Slow, but fireballs are normal.
50 points for a victory
Can drain 40-50 HP.  (10-15 HP on Baby)
ALL BOSSES ARE 100 POINTS FOR A VICTORY, JOHN BONO IS 200.
ALLITERATION DUDE
Guardian of the Blue Zone, and very weak.  Easy strategy to beat this guy if you 
know what you're doing, even if he's armed with two chainguns.

Baby Level: 500 HP
Easy Level: 1000 HP
Normal Level: 1300 HP
Hard Level: 2100 HP
Speed: Normal
LIEUTENANT HYPERBOLE
Guardian of the Grey Zone and twin brother of Alliteration Dude.  Just as easy to 
beat, and same weapons.  Just end it quickly, please?

Baby Level: 600 HP
Easy Level: 1050 HP
Normal Level: 1500 HP
Hard Level: 2300 HP
Speed: Normal
Both Hyperbole and Alliteration can deal 50-200 damage.  (20-50 on Baby)

ONOMATOPOEIA MAN
He's armed with a rocket launcher and holds the power to make you go wild, if you 
know what I mean...

Baby Level: 620 HP
Easy Level: 1050 HP
Normal Level: 1550 HP
Hard Level: 2400 HP
Speed: Fast
Can drain from 80-100 HP.  (20-25 on Baby)

CHIEF RAMALAMADINGDONG
The "easy" bosses are gone, now you have to face the "hard" bosses, like Ramalamadingdong, 
who's armed with TWO rocket launchers.

Baby Level: 650 HP
Easy Level: 1150 HP
Normal Level: 1600 HP
Hard Level: 2600 HP
Speed: Slow
Can drain from 80-200 HP.  (20-50 on Baby)

BOB BOB BOB MALOOGALOOGA
Second-in-command of the mighty bono army.  Although his attack weapon is weak, he 
will not go down easily, and what's worse, he can throw two plasma balls at a time!


Baby Level: 800 HP
Easy Level: 1200 HP
Normal Level: 2400 HP
Hard Level: 3000 HP
Speed: Fast
Can drain from 40-200 HP.  (10-50 on Baby)

JOHN BONO SMITHY SATCHMO
You go face to face with the first boss of the Guild.  He's armed with four chainguns, 
but melds down to two after enough damage.  He's still very fast, very powerful, 
and very strong.  He is formidable, and will take time to defeat him, but believe 
me, he is not invincible.

Baby Level: 6000 HP
Easy Level: 8000 HP
Normal Level: 10000 HP
Hard Level: 12000 HP
Speed: Stage 1 is fast, Stage 2 is BLUR!!!!
On Stage 1, can deal from 100-200 HP damage.  (25-50 HP on Baby)
On Stage 2, can deal from 75-150 HP damage.  (15-40 HP on Baby)

OBJECTS
NOTE: All objects are now bigger just to scare original wolfers off from getting 
treasure.
Cross - 2 points
Chalice - 5 points
Treasure - 10 points
Crown - 50 points
Sphere - 4 points + 50 ammo + 150 HP + extra life
Creature Clips - 5 ammo (30 for stone guards)
Regular Clips - 15 ammo
Dog Food - +10 HP
Blood - +2 HP
Food - +20 HP
First Aid - +50 HP
Machine Gun - Gives you machine gun/ 8 ammo
Chaingun - Gives you chaingun/ 8 ammo
All ammo will give you 1 point. (Stone guards 2 points)
There are only two keys in the game, but are well-hidden.  No, not in secret.











ZONE GUIDE
The level guide follows 60 levels, which are divided into seven zones.  In this special 
edition manual, the zone description comes with special hints for each zone.

Zone 1: The Blue Zone
The Blue Zone lasts 9 levels and are the first nine levels in the game.  They're 
better known as the prison zones.  This is where prisoners are kept as well as where 
they usually die.  You might even see an old friend or two from the old U.S. army... 
 It should be an easy run to the next zone.
•	The blue zone will be filled with guards and dogs.  Guards are slow, but dogs are 
not.  When a dog is spotted, run, unless if you have a chaingun.  Dogs ALWAYS will 
hoard into groups of at least four.
•	On level six, you see beyond the column, a swarm of dogs as well as some treasure. 
 Remember, there IS a secret door to get into this place, you just have to keep looking.

•	On level eight, if you’re out of ammo, and officers are hurling toward you, the 
best to do is to run to the gold key, grab the chaingun, and get out of that room. 
 Find the storage room, bundle up, then get ready to battle.
•	For you Wolfers, to beat Alliteration Dude, use the Hans Grosse method (run backwards 
and fire).

Zone 2: The Grey Zone
The brother zone to the Prison Zone, Zone Two, the grey zone, which is a 10-level 
area that introduces you to the lifestyle of a castle.  French flags of sort, and 
old Nazi artifacts can be found here.  Oh yeah, heed the signs that say "BEWARE THE 
SATCHMO!".  Believe me, you'll wish you did.  The last 3 levels before the boss level 
are good deathmatch arenas.  You're allowed to use these if you wish for your own 
games.
•	In level ten, if you fire one gunshot, all the Machinators will awaken.  The best 
to do is go toward the path, turn left, go straight all the way, destroy all the 
machinators there as fast as you can and grab the chaingun.  Then run like h*** back 
to start, where you can await for the others to arrive.  When enough are destroyed, 
you can go on.
•	In level 18, you don’t have to follow the whole hubbub of the level.  When a machinator 
opens a door that has H’s surrounding it, destroy him quickly and go in.  You should 
find the elevator.
•	To beat Lieutenant Hyperbole, you will be fighting amongst spear racks.  Lieutenant 
Hyperbole is in the left, a stone guard is in the right.  So as to attack as little 
creatures as possible, destroy Hyperbole first, then, if you wish, destroy the stone 
guard.

Zone 3: The Brown Zone
The Brown zone is another 10-level zone that introduces you to mazes and battling 
multiple tough creatures at once (like 5-7 Machinators).  It's every man for himself 
at these levels, and this zone is also the most vulnerable to finding a short cut 
for beating par times by minutes as well as lots of treasure.  If I do recall, one 
secret room in level 22 or 23 has up to 10000 points in treasure!  Oh well, what 
do I know?  Better check it out for yourself.
•	On most levels, you don’t get a machine gun or chaingun in advance, you have to 
grab it from a Machinator, or something else…
•	On Levels 22-24, there are secret rooms with treasure up to 20000 points!!!
•	On finishing level 28, you will see four stone guard secluded to a bunch of columns. 
 They cannot hurt you, but you can hurt them.  If you want that kill bonus, destroy 
them, if not, ignore them and move on.
•	There are 4 entrances to Onomatopoeia Man’s Arena, each surrounded by up to three 
Walking Undead.  Destroy all the walking undead first and keep clear away from inside 
the arena.
•	If you are inside the arena, leave, unless Onomatopoeia Man has left his arena, 
then go in.  His rocket launcher IS VERY DEADLY!  The columns are the only things 
that protect you from his rockets.  But, your chainguns can deal damage to him…

Zone 4: The Purple Zone
The Purple zone is an 11-level zone that is filled with obstacle courses.  John Bono 
uses this to teach eager French soldiers how to play like a warrior of the Quar. 
 There is much invisibility in this level as well, so watch out.  One wrong move 
and it could be your last.  The Brown Zone ends the "easy" levels and the "easy" 
bosses.  The Purple Zone makes things just that much more intense.
•	Level 30 is a bonus level of sorts.  You’ll see many like this later in the game.

•	Levels 31, 35, and 38 are Assault levels.  If you’ve watched the old TV show “American 
Gladiators”, you’ll know that they had an event called an assault.  This level was 
designed to be just like it.  Levels 35 and 38 are the same strategy, but one uses 
Machinators and dogs (35) and the other guards (38).
•	In Level 37, follow the same method as in level 7.  It is the same thing anyways.

•	On Level 39 hard level, there are over 140 guards sent by Chief Ramalamadingdong 
himself.  Destroy everything in front of you, stock up, destroy the rest of the guards, 
come back, stock up, and run to the elevator.
•	To beat Ramalamadingdong, dodge his rocket launchers, for he is twice as deadly 
as Onomatopoeia Man, two rocket launchers strong.

Zone 5: The Red Zone
The red zone is an 11-level zone and is one of the most heavily guarded areas in 
the game.  Only one more heavily guarded is the Emerald Zone (Zone 6).  Bob Bob Bob 
Maloogalooga has sent many men to try to stop you.  Of course, if his men can't do 
it, he'll stop you instead.  NOTE: Take a look at those wreaths on these levels. 
 They say 42, I wonder what does that mean?
•	On level 42, everything is what it seems.  There are 42 bonus lifes, on easy, 42 
guards, on normal, add 42 officers, and on hard, add 42 Machinators!!!  The key is 
the opposite room of your starting position.
•	On level 45, the only clue I will give you is, there IS an elevator that hasn’t 
been pulled up yet.  It’ll take you a while to find it though.  No, there is not 
a secret door on that level.
•	On level 48, follow the same method as in level 8.
•	Bob Bob Bob Maloogalooga’s Offices is similar to Ramalamadingdong’s except it’s 
a longer trail to get there.  Make sure you stock up on ammo, because going back 
again will be a waste of time, enough time for Bob Bob to chase you, sneak up behind 
you, and take you out!
•	Remember, Bob Bob will not go down easily!  He has up to 3000 life points.  Be 
patient when fighting him.

Zone 6: The Emerald Zone
The emerald zone is an 8-level zone and is the most heavily guarded.  These levels 
were set up by John Bono Smithy Satchmo himself to eliminate any ruckus should all 
of his commanders from the levels below fail.  In the upper levels of the Emerald 
Zone, some familiar faces will appear!  After Level 59, hang on tight, because what's 
coming up next will shock you...
•	Levels 52 and 53 can be reached by the special cheat codes, but the levels onward 
cannot.  The reason is because John Bono has made special clones of the fallen commanders 
you defeated in the levels below.
•	Level 54 consists of 2 Bob Bob Bob Maloogaloogas and a Lieutenant Hyperbole.  Be 
sure that you find the two secret doors in your starting room before moving forward. 
 If you don’t have a chaingun, you’re SOL.
•	Level 55 consists of 3 Chief Ramalamadingdongs.  There are very few bonus spheres 
here.  To stay alive, you have to conserve the first aid and ammo.  Attack one Chief 
at a time.  So as not to make it as hard on yourself as it already is!
•	Level 56 consists of all the previous bosses EXCEPT for Ramalamadingdong.  The 
best thing to do is grab as many chainguns and first aids as possible in Bob Bob’s 
corner.  Then head to the other side and defeat Lieutenant Hyperbole.  If you’re 
on hard, you’re probably drained of health by now.  Don’t bother fighting the others 
unless you want a 1000 point kill bonus.  Is it worth it?  If not, head towards the 
locked door and to an elevator.
•	Levels 57 and 59 are recharging stations.  Recharge everything before the next 
level.
•	Level 58 is known as the Kaos.  The idea is to go all the way down to the center 
room.  From the center room, you’ll find FOUR Alliteration Dudes, FOUR Lieutenant 
Hyperboles, and FOUR Onomatopoeia Men.  In normal and hard, it may seem impossible, 
but it isn’t.  You only have to beat two or three of them.  Then, stock up on health 
(because you’ll be drained out of most of it after this), and rush toward the center 
again.  You’ll see an elevator.  Head to the elevator!
•	There is no actual boss in the Emerald Zone, for it is just an entryway to the 
dark zone.  You’ll notice that the Dark Zone looks easy, but John Bono just makes 
it tougher.

Zone 7: The Dark Zone
Level 60, (Distorted Skies), is better known as The Dark Zone.  This is the level 
where John Bono is hiding.  About six arenas make up this one level, and in the center 
of them all is John Bono himself.  He'll be guarded by about a half a dozen stone 
guards in other arenas.  This by far is the hardest of all levels, due to the longevity 
of John Bono's life, but win this game, and you get to see the cheat codes!  Plus, 
you have eliminated one of the most prized warriors of the Quar!
•	Conserve health and ammo.  No matter what level you are in, you’ll be approached 
by the same number of enemies.  In the two rooms separated by a column, there’ll 
be four stone guards on each side.  In John Bono’s throne room, there’ll be 5 stone 
guards and of course, John Bono himself.
•	If on baby or easy, go head to head with him.  If on normal or hard, attack from 
far away, and when chasing you, run as fast as you can.  His second stage can run 
as fast as you can.  If you have to, use up all the life spheres.  Remember this, 
you don’t have to be a perfect 999 HP to win the game.  You can be at 1 HP and still 
win the game.  After beating John Bono’s second stage, grab the golden key where 
the J was flashing and go through the locked door (Hail Bono), then just move toward 
the claw (a faint overhead light above).
•	High scores will be posted on the website at http://www.geocities.com/tetraarchangel/guild/

•	My score was almost a quarter of a million points.  It is possible to break the 
250,000 mark, you just have to be skilled.





























UPCOMING EPISODES

Episode II: Sub-Zero Showdown
Allied forces have locked on a secret ore refinery in Antarctica led by the Guild 
boss Houstophocles.  Your mission is to infiltrate the base, destroy Houstophocles 
and destroy the place without putting your life at risk.  Just don't catch a cold!


Episode III: The Castle of the Guild
The Guild of Darkness has been losing territory and are at the brink of defeat.  
Allied forces have sent you through the safest and lightest guarded passage to the 
castle.  There, the Quar and his 5 remaining bosses are waiting.  But there is a 
catch, the Quar has prepared a death ray for the attacking forces.  You must destroy 
the Quar before the death ray is complete!

Episode IV: The Artifacts Revealed
To many, the war is over, but not for you.  Allied forces have all seven artifacts 
in a special room, but suddenly, Allied HQ was completely destroyed out of nowhere. 
 The fugitive is none other than the Quar, revived as the Deathscythe!  The Deathscythe 
is heading to Moscow to fire his all-powerful death ray!  You must defeat the newly 
revived Quar one more time before he destroys the world!


























DEDICATIONS

This page is for all my dedications.

To: Alexia – my girlfriend and my love, who taught me so much, and who inspired me 
to make this game to seethe my anger for the next people I dedicate this game to.


To: John – who plays John Bono Smithy Satchmo in his upcoming movies.  Thanks to 
his crazy schemes, he became my inspiration to make all four episodes.

To: Steven – who plays Bob Bob Bob Maloogalooga in the John Bono movies.

To: Lydon, Tyvan, Artie, and James – who plays Alliteration Dude, Lieutenant Hyperbole, 
Onomatopoeia Man, and Chief Ramalamadingdong in the John Bono movies, respectively.


To: Julia and Sarah – who inspired me to create the idea for the Quar

To: The Cold War – the U.S. really kicked butt on Communism in that war, eh?

To: ID Software – for releasing the source code to Wolfenstein 3D 1.4.  Without them, 
this Wolfenstein TC Game wouldn’t be possible.

To: Areyep, MCS, and Tristan van Putten – who’s incredible Wolfenstein TCs “Spear 
Resurrection”, “The Final Solution”, and “Wolfendoom” inspired me to make a Wolfenstein 
TC game of my own, except I followed the path of the Cold War and not WWII.

To: Richard, Omar, John, and Alexia – for beta-testing the game


Freeware Software
2002 by Tetraarchangel













