Improved Wolfmap Definition Files * Eric A. Meyer (eam3@po.cwru.edu)   
--------------------------------------------------------------------
   If you've been trying to use map editor programs to the view "Spear
of Destiny" maps, and finding nothing but a lot of blanks and strange
symbols--here's a solution.
   The files MAPDATA.ASC and OBJDATA.ASC are intended for use with Sysma 
Automatizering's Wolfmap 1.6, and should have no problems working with
Bill Kirby's MapEdit 4.1 or any other program based on MapEdit.  The
files should be saved in ASCII text format with only the code/description
lines, and should be renamed to have the extension .DEF.  Any blank
lines at the beginning or end of the files will cause Wolfmap to abort
on load--I found this to be the most common source of load errors after
editing.  Use a text editor such as the MS-DOS "Edit" program, or any
other program which will allow you to save plain-text files and strip
out any blank lines you find.  DO NOT leave any header lines.  DO NOT
put in any sort of lines to separate sections, blank or otherwise.
DO NOT pass Go.  DO NOT collect--
   These codes and descriptions were developed with the aid of some 
Mapedit help files (specifically those relating to color and character 
in the object/wall codes), as Wolfmap is basically a Mapedit with the 
ability to load multiple scenarios.  In "Spear of Destiny", the first 
ten levels will be loaded into Episode 1, the last eight plus two secret 
levels go into Episode 2, and one very special level takes up the first 
level of Episode 3.  All other levels and Episodes are completely blank.
   These .DEF files are really hacked versions of the files which came 
with Wolfmap.  I've corrected a few spelling errors, and have changed a 
few object icons to reflect my personal preferences.  For example, the 
.DEF files I received with Wolfmap listed the guys in blue uniforms as 
SS guards and the guys in white uniforms as officers.  I switched the 
two, so now 'O' means blue guy and 'S' means white guy (small joke 
there; ALL of the Nazis are white, of course!).  I almost labeled the 
white-uniforms as Alpenkorps, but decided that the 'A' didn't show up as 
well as the 'S', although this opinion is subject to change.
   Similarly, I slightly altered some existing wall icons and invented 
some new ones.  My descriptions are not particularly inspired, but they 
should get the point across, especially once you've seen the wall type 
in question.  I realize that the brown-and-grey stone walls and the 
various mottled grey walls look a lot alike, and in some cases I used 
identical icons for different codes in the same type.  In some cases 
this was because I couldn't think of any other suitable icon that wasn't 
already in use; for the rest, I was just too damn lazy to come up with 
anything better.
   Also note:  I went through considerable effort to assign icons and 
descriptions to all of the unused codes.  These will show up in the list 
(and on the map) as "Unknown object" (dark blue question mark) and 
"Unknown wall" (dark gray checkered square with black center).
   If anyone has a major problem with my icon choices, they may email me 
at eam3@po.CWRU.Edu for a copy of the files which detail what the 
object/wall codes stand for and how they may be altered.  If demand for 
these 'how-to' files goes through the roof they will be uploaded to 
ccu.umanitoba.ca and all queries will be directed there.
   That should be about it.  Please contact me if any problems are 
encountered while using these files.  REMEMBER--back up your old .DEF 
files before installing these!  If you overwrite the old files with the 
new ones, and the new ones don't work, don't complain to me that your 
editor is broken.  Always have a backup in case something goes wrong.  
[End of anal-retentive computoweenie sermonizing.]
   Enjoy!  ("What do you think, sirs?")

