Day Of The Chaingun v1.00

To run Day Of The Chaingun, place the files in a folder (preferably by itself) and 
run the
file Wolf3d.

Day Of The Chaingun is Wolfenstein 3d, with new levels replacing the old ones and 
edited
graphics. Unlike the previous Wolfenstein games, DOTC is set in a secret Nazi troop

fortress, not a secret Nazi dungeon. I know those stupid freak people liked to torture

people, but this is strictly a troop fortress only, so no cells or hanging skeletons.

Before Castle Wolfenstein was purged of all Nazis, Germany made plans for the ultra

chaingun. The Venom Gun. You must get those plans.

Wolf3d and Spear of Destiny are great, but some of the levels are tedious maze crawling

levels. I tried to make my levels as maze-like less as possible without making a

simple, boring game. Tell me what you think of my levels by e-mailing me at my e-mail

adress: bullpup2000 (at) hotmail.com
DOTC offers roughly 10-20 minutes of gameplay with a total of 6 levels. It is small, 
but
at least it is not full of mazes like the boring Wolf3-Map7 or Wolf6-Map2 and every 
other
Episode 6 map.
Using FloEdit, I made new levels and changed some of the skeleton and blood sprites 
into
other things, like toilets, chairs and bathtubs. FloEdit is an excellent program 
for
making Wolf3d and SOD levels. You should download it now.

The levels have different themes

Level 1: The eating area
Level 2: The barracks
Level 3: Weapons storage
Level 4: Hospital
Level 5: Officer's Quarters
Level 6: Commando's Quarters

MISSION BRIEFING
27 December 1944
Germany is starting to show signs of defeat. Before his death, German scientist Otto

Giftmacher designed a destructive weapon, the phase-pulse chaingun. Originally intended 

for the mutants, the plans were recently discovered by Germans, and they plan to 
send
it by telegram from one of their troop fortresses to Berlin for mass production.

The phase-pulse chaingun is capable of piercing 10 inches of steel and can be latched

onto vehicles and walls, thus being the ultimate troop weapon. A chaingun is in the 
hands
of a German commando, who was videotaped by spies while test-firing it. Find those 
plans
before they are transmitted, and if possible, eliminate the commando. He probably 
knows
how the weapon works.

Weapons
1. Fist: the last resort. Good for killing lone guards.
2. Semi-automatic shotgun: Good against lone guards and SS.
3. Sub-machine gun: An excellent weapon, but not as good as the......
4. Chaingun: Not as popular as the SMG, but is simply better.

When you play the game, you should notice that all the weapons animations were changed.

I love playing Doom, so the fist and chaingun animations come from Doom.
I made the sub machine gun animations.
The shotgun comes from Duke Nukem 3d.

Enjoy!!!!!!!