THE DEVIL'S ATTACK

This is a demo of The Devil's Attack, a "trick" add-on for the "G" version of version 1.4 of the full registered version Wolfenstein 3-D.  If you use any other version, not all of the "tricks" will work (to check if your version of Wolf3D is the "G" version, see if it has the "G" logo on the startup screen.)  Note that the easier the difficulty level is, the harder the levels are.  Also remember to never save or pause the game in any way without restoring immediately after -- trouble can eventually occur in some levels if you don't.  The levels included:

E1 LEVEL 1: THE PHANTOM CORRIDOR -- Although this level is very primitive, and isn't even really a level, there's something very, very, strange about it...

E2 LEVEL 1 -- In this slimy mutant-infested level, you will have to work hard to get a machine gun...

E2 LEVEL 2 -- You will encounter many more tricks in this level than in previous levels, including doors that cause the ceiling to change color (and become striped,) blocks that disappear when pushed, force-fields, and more.  Hint: Sometimes when you push out the elevator block at the end of the level, it may reveal a blue key.  If it does, there's a secret area that you can access with that key.  Also note that this level has the "flashing red border" bug.

E2 LEVEL 3: WEIRD WALL ZONE -- Nearly all of the walls in this level are garbled, and different areas have different garbled wall textures, although the texture that any one area has can change.  This level is only partially complete, and the game will crash with a "Demo buffer overflowed" message soon after you start the level (although, if you're fast, you can still get pretty far.)  To get out of the first room, wait for the guard to open the door, then run forward, shoot the guard in the doorway, and zoom through.

OTHER LEVELS: Other levels are only "filler" levels, and are all exactly the same.  Try exploring them -- they're VERY weird.  (Note: Whatever you do, don't look too far left or right in the first area or the game will freeze.  Just run through the wall you see.)

You can e-mail me at barichm0@netscape.net.

Wolf3D Disaster Zone URL: http://mbarich.tripod.com/wlf3d/