* * * Wolfenstein 3-D: The Deluxe Edition v1.99z (Four-level demo) * * *

My plan is for this to be my last update before re-writing the game's code from the 
beginning.  The game engine has bugs galore, most of which I can't resolve in its 
current form.  It's easier just to start the code over.

Story:

The seeds of evil are planted.  And what they grow is both bleak and horrific.

Adolf Hitler commands Germany, and does so with mad, twisted inhibitions.  He strives 
to rule the world, and rumors say he's done more than break the laws of man - he's 
breaking the rules of nature as well.  He has hired a Doctor Schabbs to resurrect 
dead, mutated soldiers to overrun the world, calling the plan "Operation: Eisenfaust".


Are the rumors true?  You do some spying to find out.  You sneak into a German camp 
and easedrop on some chatting Nazis from a distance.  But while you've checked behind 
you, in front of you, and from side to side, you haven't checked above you.  And 
from above is where an Officer jumps you.

You awaken later to find yourself in Castle Wolfenstein, miles away from where you're 
supposed to be.  You pull the old "sick ploy" to coax a guard in, cut his throat, 
and grab his gun.  As you hear other Nazis coming to investigate, you ready yourself 
for action.

The dungeon has swallowed you whole.  You plan to give it massive indigestion.

Bugs:

The self-running demos don't work right, so they're currently disabled.  If you can 
fix this bug, please upload the source code with the correction(s).  Thanks!  :-)


Credits:

Original code: Id Software
Wolf4SDL version: Ripper
Additional coding: Merthsoft, WLHack, Tricob, BT, and various code tutorials from 
the Wolf3D Dome and the DHWs message boards
Graphics: Adrian Carmack, Julian Ridley, Chris Benson, Todd Camasta, Sporb, Laz Rojas, 
Tricob, ChaosEdit, WDC, graphical extractions from TekWar (care of DoomJedi), ReColorBMP, 
Spritemaker, MS Paint

Disclaimer: Tricob is not associated with the ESRB, nor assumes any liability for 
damages related to WolfDX or its tools.  End of legal mumbo-jumbo.

- "Tricob".