A NOTE FROM MAJIK MONKEE
------------------------
This mod was originally released under the false name "Elmer Fudd", and many aspects 
of it were intended to be humorous and strange, while the mod itself is intentionally 
extremely difficult. For those who enjoy a challenge, though, it's actually a very 
playable mod. To preserve the "mystique" of the original release, below is the original 
"help" documentation, and I've left the "endart" files exactly as they were upon 
the mod's original release. Special thanks to Andy Nonymous for the SDL exe! Enjoy!

------------------------


REVENGE OF POOPDECK WILLIE: RESURRECTION info

This is an 12 level Wolfenstein game.  It is a finished version, not a demo, but 
only the first three episodes have any levels.  All new stuff is used with permission 
from owners of original games.  Here is what came from what:

new enemies - from Monkee's Image World site
new levels - used with permission from Halls of Stonehenge game (with modifications 
to make it more challenging)
all else - from Wolfenstein 3D

This game is hard sometimes but it can be won.  I know this is true because I suck 
but I can still win it.  Your mission is simple, friend.  Destroy Poopdeck Willie, 
or else!

Episode 1 - Poopdeck Willie has a plan to destroy the world with his assassains and 
Nazi troops.  If you lose, he will have revenge on the entire world!  Don't do it! 
 Go in his castle and destroy him!

Episode 2 - Dr Evel, Willie's partner, is making zombies and next generation super 
soldiers to destroy the world.  Enter his underground lair and put a stop to it! 
 The lair is huge, but you can do it!

Episode 3 - It looks like Dr Evel brought Hitler back to life!  Go and get rid of 
him!  Otherwise who knows the future of the world!  Hope none of Willie's officers 
try to escape in a tank! :)

If you like this game (or played it at all), I'd love to hear from you.  My email 
is: elmerfreakinfudd2 (at) yahoo.com

Thanks for playing of course.