sod reborn
firstly iwould like to thank zach  wolf skevos jones tristram van putten and lastly 
but 
definetly not least areyep (i think thats how u spell it) for all these cool graphics.

I originaly made this for my own enjoyment so i dident spend ages making my own graphics 
mostly just death coverting
and a few new charecters but i think i did ok and it gives me a chance to do wat 
i enjoy most about editing wolf (making
graphics)so i hope you enjoy your second visit to nuremburg as much as i did.

story:
london..shit 2 months and im still only in london.... i could feel them geting stronger 

every minute i lye in this hotel room i was getting weaker... and evey second kraut 
squated
in his fox hole he was getting stronger.Every body gets what they whant i wanted 
a mission
and for my sins they gave me one and after it id never want another one. It was a 
real choice
mission not your usual blow up the bridge or kill  the genral.. the c.o explained 
it to me in serios detail.
nuremburg..i was to head deep behind enemy lines and infiltrate castle nuremburg 
the most heavily gaurded
location next to berlin itself i was to locate some kind of weapon a spear...what 
the fuck
did they want a spear for...hell id have plenty of time to think about it on the 
train.

i was under cover and on a train heading for germany i puled a docment from the dossier

it was a more detalied mission brefieng

captin blascowitz
first we must persist that while this mission is taking place and after it has been 
completed
you must discus it with no one and may we remind you captin that this mission does 
not exist nor will it ever exist.
the objective of your mission is simple infiltrate castle nuremburg and steal the 
religious artifact on the
top floor and escape the castle..the method on the other hand wich is entirely up 
to you is a whole new ball game
the castle is heavily gaurded on all floors and traps to maim and kill intruders 
are every where
so it is inperitive that you are as careful as humanly and maybe inhumanly posible 
remember captin your 
not the first agent weve sent to that fortress.
The rest of the document explained troop layouts guard paterns around the castle 
but nohing
about the insides of the fortess.. like the gate was a black hole to another dimension 
wence
no one could return . it also told me that i would be meeting an other agent aboard 
the train.. shit
they could have told me this before i got on this thing.

Before i could read any more i felt a tap on my shoulder i amidietly turned around 
expecting to see a 
gestapo officer but was pleasently suprised to see my contact "captin blascowtz" 
he whisperd
i noded my head and he pased me a breif case . I looked up at him and before leaving 
for the back of the train he
said"i sure am glad to see you captin now i can get out of this evil place if i can 
find a way" and with that he was gone.

I opened the breif case there was a luger pistol some winter survival gear and another 
document
breaking the seal and opening the document i began to read

captin blascowitz 
there has been a further development in your mission as you know your not the first 
person
to atempt this mission about two days ago we recieved this mesage from colnel dilian 
kurtz
"i saw it i saw ... it i totched the spear..and ..and when i totched it i relised 
they where
stronger than us with it we cant stop them ...when i saw it when i touched it ..it 
killed me no
no i thought it kiled me i was not strong anouth to weld it to even hold it in my 
hand he..he
was strong anouth to weld it and when he unlocks its power we wont be able to stop 
them darknes
will spread across the earth and victory will be theres...a dager.. a dager stuck 
in the earth
....and blood spiling from the cut and consuming everthing...that is my dream.. its 
my nightmare.
That was the last we heard from colnel kurtz we tried to recal him but he seems to 
have gone beyond
our reach efectivly kurtz is no longer taking orders from us but is comanding troops...german 
troops
in the feild with no regards for human life or moral uphold. efectivly captin you 
are to terminate
kurts comand terminate with exteme prediduce.

kurts hmmm id heard of this guy reading his records i found it hard to match up that 
face to those words.
the more i read about kurts the more i began to admire him two silver stars a medal 
of honor
came top of his class in all areas of soldering specialy requested to join the special 
forces
was let down three times until he threatened to resine he was 34 for fuck sake two 
months later 
the oss recruited him he was specialy assined to this mission perfectly qualified 
more qualified 
than me thats for damm sure after he entered the castle that was it the last transmission 
came a month later
what had kurts seen in that castle what was it that pushed him over the edge.

the contact was right something dark and evil cast its shadow over this land i could 
feel it.

36hours later

I had spent the past day and a halve sneaking through that dark alpine forest moving 
slowly but stealthly
up hill the dark spectre of nuremburg loomed over the night.. the moon diapering 
behind it trucks and soldiers
constantly pasing in and out of the front gate. they had carefuly guarded every entrance 
exept one a broken open tunel
leading into the  catacombs underneath the castle. i jumped into the moat and and 
quickly located the gap in the tunel grate
 i sliped into the darkess and faded to black.
this is where it realy began.


HI THIS LIL UPDATE FOR SOD HAS BEEN HANGING AROUND ON MY HARD DRIVE FOR SOME TIME 
NOW
AND I PLAYED IT THE OTHER DAY AND RELISED HOW GREAT IT WAS TOO PLAY SOD WITHOUT HAVIN

TO SHOOT AT DUDES IN BLUE AND MUTANTS WICH SHOULDENT EVEN BE THERE (SOD IS BEFORE 
WOLF3D).
ANY WAY NOTHING IN THIS MOD IS REALY MINE ITS MORE OF THE CASE OF THE BEST stuf I 
COULD FIND.
i decided to update it a little replacing laz rojases getapo officers with wolf skevosis

and a few other things from the latest tcs
feel free to use this on other spear packs with no new graphics