

			Wolfenstein 3D

		       60 New Levels

			
			by Nate Smith
			Nayt1@usa.net
						



	This is my Wolfenstein 3D add-on.  It keeps the spirit of the original game intact, 
but still changes the graphics, levels, and some of the sounds.  It contains 60 new 
levels, new graphics, and new sounds.  The following 4 files should be included:


				VSWAP.WL6
				GAMEMAPS.WL6
				MAPHEAD.WL6
				WOLF3D.DOC

Unzip them into your wolf3d directory.

Some of the graphics in this patch are from Spear of Destiny, some are from Spear 
of Destiny Mission 2, and some are completely new.

							GUARDS

The following is a list of the guards and pictures of their new graphics.

I want to hear from you!  If you played my add-on, please e-mail me and tell me what 
you thought of my levels and the graphics.


            Green Guards:  They go down easy, but there's alot of  'em. 
 	Dogs:  They go down even easier, but are dangerous in numbers.
 	Officers:  They're quick and deadly.
 	SS:  They're slow, but powerful.
 	Mutants:  They're quicker than Officers and attack without warning.
 	???????

							HUGE GUARDS

 		Submarine Willy:  Armed with a chaingun and a machine gun, he'll be 						difficult 
to defeat
 		Dr.  Schabbs:  Now with a missile launcher, he's as deadly as ever.
 		Adolf Hitler:  With four chainguns, he's the ultimate enemy.
 		Otto Giftmacher:  His rocket laucher is sure to give you trouble.
 		Hans Grosse:  Because he's got two chainguns, this very well may be 					     
     where your mission ends!
 		General Fetgeisecht:  He owns a rocket laucher and a chaingun, so he'll 						
      be hard to beat.






					   The "Lost Episodes"

	The so-called Spear of Destiny Lost Episodes are two add-ons released by the FormGen 
Corporation in 1994 for Spear of Destiny.  They were titiled "Spear of Destiny Mission 
2: Return to Danger" and "Spear of Destiny Mission 3: the Ultimate Challenge."   
Nobody seems to know much about these add-ons.

	When the Lost Episodes were released, I "obtained" a copy of Mission 2.  Unfortunately 
I no longer have the files.  However, I do have the manual.  The manual contains 
the maps for the 21 levels.
The first 5 levels of Episode 1 in my add-on are copied from the maps of  Mission 
2.

	Since I've read somewhere that no one knows what the guards of Mission 2 say, I 
present the sounds of Mission 2:

 		Green Guard:  Alarm!  -  Danger!*
					        Gluck gwhabt!  -  You were lucky!
				 	        Mammi!  -  Mommy!
					       Au!  Das tut weh!  -  Ow! That hurts!
	
      		S.S.:  Wer da?  -  Who's there?*
				         Tod furs Vaterland!  -  Death for the Father country!
 		Officer:  Denkste!  -  You thought so!*
				               Heil Hitler!  -  Hail Hitler!
 		Was zum Teufel?  -  What the hell?
					Verdammt  -  Damn!
 		Dein letzer Fehler!  -  Your last mistake!
					Nein, nicht schon wieder!  -  No, not again!
 		Zeig was du kanns, du Fiegling!  -  Show what you can, you 									wimp!
					Du bist der storleste.  -  You are the strongest.


*those marked with a * appear as sounds in my add-on


An add-on for Spear of Destiny is coming soon!
