SPEAR RESURRECTION README
=========================

A thanks to id software
-----------------------

Firstly, AReyeP and MCS Amsterdam would like to thank id Software (www.idsoftware.com) 
for making the original "Wolfenstein 3D" and its sequel "Spear of Destiny". The guys 
at id made 3D gaming what it is today, as the Wolfenstein games were the breakthrough 
as far as today's 3D computer gaming is concerned. Wolfenstein was just the beginning, 
afterwards, the team at id went on to make classic 3D games such as "Doom", "Quake" 
etc.

When John Carmack (head programmer at id) made the source code for the earlier Wolfenstein 
games freely available to the public a few years back, it enabled Wolfenstein fans 
to alter the game in ways we had never been able to. And although Spear Resurrection 
was made by 2 Wolfenstein 3D fans, it would not exist if it weren't for the original 
Wolfenstein games. Don't let it be said that id software don't look after their fans!


And let's not forget John Romero - although he's no longer with id these days, he 
was part of their team when they made Wolf 3D. He was also decent enough to reply 
to a couple of emails I sent him. As I said earlier, these people look after their 
fans!

If you want the original Wolfenstein 3D (believe me, it's a classic that is well 
worth the small amount it would cost these days), then pay a visit to www.3drealms.com 
(home of classic games such as Duke Nukem 3D etc). Also, visit www.idsoftware.com 
and check out the games they make!

Game Manual Addendum
--------------------

In order to prevent the game manual for Spear Resurrection becoming too long, we 
left out a few things that we'll mention here.

Enemy deaths:
An enemy death = points for B.J.! It doesn't matter how or what strategy you use 
to dispatch an enemy - you will always receive the allocated amount of points when 
an enemy dies. So, feel free to lure your enemies into a minefield. Or towards an 
Artefact of Death. Or kill them with exploding barrels. And relax in the knowledge 
that by doing these things you score points the easy way!

Of course we could have set the game so that you wouldn't score in certain situations 
such as described above, but we felt that players chasing a high score may be discouraged 
from trying inventive strategies to defeat the enemy if we did this.

And the points earned for each enemy dispatched? You earn:
100 points for a suicide clone
200 points for a guard
400 points for an officer
500 points for an SS
500 points for a standard clone
1000 - 10000 points for "boss" enemies (the tougher they are, the more they're worth)


Weapon Selection:
We set the game so that if you're using a pistol, machine gun or MCS weapon, that 
once you run out of ammunition for that particular weapon, the knife is then automatically 
selected as your default weapon.

As an example, say you have a machine gun and 150 rounds of ammo type 1, and you're 
using an MCS type weapon with only 24 rounds of ammo type 2 remaining against a horde 
of enemies. When you run out of ammo type 2, you'll drop back to your knife, NOT 
the machine gun, meaning you'll have to manually select the machine gun by pressing 
the number 3 key.

Why in blazes did we set it this way? Perhaps you may not like this "feature", but, 
we had our reason for doing it this way, and that reason was mainly to discourage 
player complacency. Being that the player can hold up to 300 rounds of ammunition 
at once (150 of each ammo type), we felt it would mean a player would never have 
to worry about a weapon running out of ammo if weapons using the other ammo type 
were automatically selected as a "fallback". In other words, no matter what type 
of weapon/ammo you're using, you'll have to keep an eye on the ammo remaining instead 
of just blindly blazing away like Rambo on steroids! Hopefully, it will keep players 
on their toes. Besides, in real life, you'd have to take at least a second or so 
to change weapons, wouldn't you? It doesn't just happen automatically!

Secret Areas:
This topic was hardly even mentioned in the "readme" manual from within the game 
due to limitations in the readme size, so it's covered here.

There are a number of secret areas in each level of Spear Resurrection. You don't 
HAVE to find them to complete the game, but it can certainly help you complete your 
mission if you do.

As with the original Wolfenstein games, essential items such as keys are never hidden 
in secret areas, as we didn't want the player becoming frustrated looking for a necessary 
key that's hidden in some remote area. However, if you DO find a key in a hidden 
area, well, it may be worthwhile trying to find just what bonus area it opens!

And of course, as all Wolfers would know, the best way to search for secrets is to 
run along a wall at a 45 degree angle whilst keeping the space bar depressed.

Cheat codes:
There is a cheatcode (similar to the MLI in the original Wolfenstein 3D) that grants 
the player all weapons and full health (but takes the player's score back to zero). 
But we won't make it widely known yet. If you're lucky, you may figure it out yourself.

We will quite possibly list the cheat codes etc at www.areyep.com in the near future.


SPEAR RESURRECTION "HALL OF FAME"!!!
------------------------------------

Would you like to have your name recorded in the Spear Resurrection "Hall of Fame" 
at www.areyep.com? Well, all you have to do is play the game through on one of the 
two hardest skill levels ("I'm a Hero" or "Suicidal Tendencies") WITHOUT CHEATING! 
Remember, this does not apply if you playing on either of the two easiest skill levels 
(and no, we don't want a "Grandma's Hall of Fame" :)

By not cheating, we mean you shouldn't activate any cheats whatsoever that you may 
be aware of. This does NOT include loading saved games. In other words, you're free 
to save and reload games as often as you wish (don't ya wish real life were like 
this?!!!) And don't try pressing the "MLI" keys simultaneously during the game either 
- you'll be penalized for doing so!

However, the MLI keys do have a special use. Once you have actually TAKEN POSSESSION 
of the Spear (not before), the MLI keys (pressed simultaneously) will give you a 
secret code (if you've cheated even just once, you WON'T get the code at all). If 
you'd like your name to appear in the Spear Resurrection "Hall of Fame", then once 
you've captured the Spear, save your game and send a copy of the savegame file (it 
will be in your Spear Resurrection folder named in the form "savegam?.rip" where 
? is the number of the saved game) to:
admin@areyep.com
We'll check the saved game to confirm you didn't cheat. Most importantly, don't forget 
to include your name and/or alias so that we can actually list it in the "Hall of 
Fame"!

The Spear Resurrection "Hall of Fame" will be open to new entries until MCS and/or 
AReyeP decide it is time to close it off. Check www.areyep.com to see the "Hall of 
Fame" and whether the list is closed or otherwise.

Oh, errr, don't get too cocky once you've grabbed the spear and saved your game. 
We didn't say that meant the game was over...!

***TROUBLESHOOTING***
---------------------

MEMORY:
-------

You require at least 550 - 560 kb of base (or conventional) memory in order for Spear 
Resurrection to run reliably. Although you may be able to run it with less, you may 
experience problems such as the game refusing to run with the maximum view size, 
or even "dumping out" altogether. The more base memory you have free, the better. 
Ideally, you should be aiming to have at least 560 kb free base memory.

Although the game will also use available "extended" (XMS) and/or "expanded" (EMS) 
memory, the base memory is the most critical. When you start Spear Resurrection, 
you'll see 3 memory indicators under the title "Available Memory". The one on the 
far left listed as "Main" is the most important. If the yellow indicators are only 
as high as the orange 256 (or lower), then you may need to free up more base memory 
for reliable performance.

To find out how much base memory your system has, go to a DOS prompt, and type:
mem
then press the Enter key.
At the bottom of the readout, you should see a line that says:
Largest executable program size      608K (623,008 bytes)

If that 608 is anything higher than 560, then you shouldn't have to worry. Between 
550 - 560 should hopefully be adequate also.

If, however, that 608 is less than 550, then you should look at freeing up some conventional 
memory. To do this, open your config.sys file (use "Notepad" or some similar text 
editor) and, if they're not already there, try inserting the following lines at the 
top:

DEVICE=C:\WINDOWS\HIMEM.SYS
DOS=HIGH
DOS=UMB
DEVICEHIGH=C:\WINDOWS\EMM386.EXE AUTO RAM

In addition to the above, it's quite possible your config.sys file has other "DEVICE=" 
lines. Try changing those to "DEVICEHIGH=" and it's possible these may be loaded 
into upper memory areas thus freeing up base memory. Of course you'll need to restart 
your computer for these new settings to take effect.

Or, if you're certain you don't need particular device drivers loaded from your config.sys, 
just put the letters "rem" in front of the line you don't need eg:
rem DEVICE=C:\ATACR\ATAPIMGR.SYS
The "rem" will stop that particular driver loading and hogging precious memory. Of 
course, if you later find you really do need to have that particular line loaded, 
you can just remove the "rem" and restart your computer.

After making these kind of adjustments to your config.sys and restarting your computer, 
go to the DOS prompt once again, type
mem
and press the Enter key. If your "Largest executable program size" is now above 550kb, 
then you should be able to run Spear Resurrection without any problem.

GAME CRASHES:
-------------

If for some reason your system decides it doesn't like something the game is doing, 
then the game will most likely just "dump out" with an error message. This won't 
harm your system, but it will mean that you'll lose whatever progress you'd made 
in the game after your last save.

If you've got a standard type of computer with an adequate amount of base memory 
(see above), you shouldn't experience any crashes at all, but, there is one you may 
encounter under certain circumstances.

If you play the game for extended periods making lots of saves and reloads as you 
play, the game may "dump out" with a "no purgable blocks" error message. This same 
kind of thing used to happen with the original Wolfenstein games. It could be due 
to a "memory leak" of some sort - whatever, just be aware of it if you plan to play 
for hours on end and you save/reload a lot.

If it does happen, well, it's no major problem. Just restart the game, load from 
your last save, and away you go again!

SOUND PROBLEMS:
---------------

In order to hear sound and/or music in the game, your computer will require an Adlib 
or Soundblaster compatible sound card. When you start the game, it should automatically 
detect the presence of such a soundcard. If it doesn't, there are a few things that 
may be the cause. The most common causes will hopefully be solved by checking the 
following:

1. If you're not getting any sound at all, then one possible cause is due to your 
soundcard's "interrupt" setting. To check this, from Win95/98, click "Start", "Settings", 
"Control Panel", then double click on the "System" icon. Click the "Device Manager" 
tab, and you should see a list of various hardware components installed in your computer. 
Look for "Sound, video and game controllers". To the left of this there should be 
a + sign; click on this to open the sub tree. You should see your soundcard listed 
in there. Click on it, and then click on the "Properties" button. Now, click the 
"Resources" tab, and you will see a number of settings assigned to your soundcard.

If the "Interrupt Request" setting is higher than 7, then that's most likely your 
problem. You'll need to change this, as the old Wolfenstein 3D engine didn't recognize 
soundcard interrupt values of greater than 7. To do so, deselect the "use automatic 
settings" option, then highlight the "Interrupt Request" option and click on "Change 
Setting" (you may have to change the Basic Configuration Setting if Windows won't 
allow you to change it). Now, click on the arrows until you find a number lower than 
8 that isn't being used by any other system component (Windows will list what components 
are using each interrupt). If there's one lower than 8 that's free, select it! If 
there's not, you'll have to assign something else that's using one of these lower 
interrupts a higher figure so as to free up the lower one for your soundcard.
Please bear in mind that the above procedure is from within Windows 95 - Windows 
98 would be much the same, but I'm not certain on how Windows Me/2000 may deal with 
this. And if all this hardware setting stuff is a little confusing, well, you'd be 
best to get a friend who knows a little about computers, or a computer technician, 
to help out rather than attempt to fiddle around with things yourself.

2. Another possible cause of sound problems may be found in your autoexec.bat file. 
Although you may still get in game sound without the following, it's certainly worth 
trying this if step 1 above doesn't seem to be your problem.
In your autoexec.bat file, you should have a SET BLASTER line that looks like this:

SET BLASTER=A220 I5 D1 H5 P330 T6
or
SET BLASTER=A220 I5 D1 T4
This tells your computer to set your Soundblaster (or compatible) so that DOS based 
programs will be able to detect it. Without trying to get too technical, the "A" 
points to the hex IO address, The "I" indicates the interrupt request, the "D" the 
low DMA, the "H" the high DMA, the "P" the MPU-401 UART address, and the "T" the 
soundcard type (refer to your soundcard manual).
Generally, A220 , D1, H5 and P330 are pretty much standard for most soundblaster 
type cards. Often, the number 5 is a common setting for the "I" value, but other 
figures can be used. You'll have to ensure the "I" setting matches that listed for 
the soundcard's interrupt request as explained in step 1.
Don't forget, you may need to restart your computer in order for altered settings 
to take effect. 

3. If you've accounted for the possible problems as per steps 1 and 2 above, and 
are still having no luck, then look for a file named "config.rip" in the folder where 
you installed Spear Resurrection to. This file contains information pertaining to 
your soundcard. It's possible it may have incorrect settings in it. Delete it, and 
then try running the game.

4. Although unlikely, if the sound engine should "lock up" for some reason during 
the game, try pressing the keys "BAT" simultaneously to reset it.

If none of the above help with sound problems, then I can only suggest you ask someone 
who may understand your particular computer setup.

We (AReyeP & MCS) have run the game on a number of different systems, each with different 
setups and different soundcard types.
Problems we have encountered with sound on various computer configurations:
1. If you have a Soundblaster AWE64 soundcard, you may sometimes find in-game sound 
effects "drop out" eg: you may not hear a door open, or your weapon firing on some 
occasions. The other systems have different soundcards (one has a Crystal 3D Soundblaster 
clone, another a Soundblaster 16 clone built on to the motherboard, another a genuine 
Soundblaster 16, and yet another a very early model Soundblaster card), and none 
of these systems experienced these "drop outs". Could just be an issue with the AWE 
series of Soundblaster soundcards.
2. On the system with the "on board" Soundblaster 16 clone, the in game music sounds 
off key. This isn't a problem on the other systems with other soundcards. If you 
experience this problem, we'd recommend you just go to the "Options" menu in the 
game, select the "Sound" option, and in the "Music" section select the "None" option. 
Better a game with no music than crappy sounding stuff!

DISCLAIMER:
-----------

AReyeP and MCS take no responsibility for problems encountered as a result of running 
"Spear Resurrection", or as a result of following or attempting to follow suggested 
courses of action as per the above "Trouble Shooting" section.

FINALLY:
--------

A note from MCS Amsterdam:

Should you ever find out how to enter "debug" mode, then you should be aware that 
certain rather "useless" cheats have been removed in order to save some precious 
memory. Instead, we added some more useful cheats for your convenience.

Available keys:

Tab-C (Count Objects)
Displays the amount of static objects, doors and enemies used in the current level.


Tab-D (Display Ratio)
Displays the ratio of kills, secrets, and treasures so far.

Tab-E (End level)
Ends current level and displays intermission screen.

Tab-G (God mode)
Invulnerability mode. No enemy, object or artefact can harm you.

Tab-H (Hurt yourself)
Takes 16% off your health (you can use this if you get stuck and nothing else helps).


Tab-I (Item cheat)
Adds health, points, weapons and ammo to your current total.

Tab-M (Memory info)
Displays current memory usage.

Tab-N (No Clipping Mode)
Used to walk through walls, static objects and enemies.

Tab-Q (Quit)
Exit to DOS immediately, without saving current game.

Tab-V (View Position)
Displays the current MapEdit coordinates of the player and the direction he's facing.


Tab-W (Warp to Level)
Go directly to the level of your choice (1 up to 23).

Tools used by MCS Amsterdam:

- UltraEdit v.7.10 and 8.00 (the ultimate editor, www.ultraedit.com)
- Norton Text Search for DOS v.7.0 (text search)
- Audio File Manager v.1.0 by DarkOne (music and Adlib sound replacement)
- FloEdit v.1.0 by Florian Stohr (graphics and digitized sound replacement)
- Paint Shop Pro v.5.03 by Jasc Software (graphic modifications)
- CoolEdit2000 v.1.01 by Syntrillium Software (sound modifications)
- EatMem v.1.0 -author unknown- (memory management)
- LZEXE v.0.91 by Fabrice Bellard (EXE compression)
- Borland C++ v.3.1 (source compilation)
- VThief 0.07 by Andrew Aksyonoff (screenshots)
- MapEdit 8.4 by Bill Kirby (level design)



A note from AReyeP:

A special thanks to the people who run the websites "Graphtallica" (www.graphtallica.com); 
"Texture Universe" (www.planetunreal.com/TextureUniverse); and "3D Cafe" (www.3dcafe.com). 
These sites post a number of freely available textures that are fantastic. A number 
of these textures were used as a "base" in some of the textures created for Spear 
Resurrection. To the people that run these sites - a big thankyou - you are appreciated!


I will be setting up my own "Wolfenstein 3D Texture Library" in the early part of 
2002, and will be showing how the textures used in Spear Resurrection were created. 
Just check www.areyep.com for updates.

Tools used by AReyeP:

- Paint Shop Pro ver 6.00 by Jasc Software (graphic creation & modification)
- FloEdit v.1.0 by Florian Stohr (graphics and digitized sound replacement)
- Mapedit 8.4 by Bill Kirby (level design)
- Wolfedit 2.1 by Bill Kirby (for quick graphics replacement)
- Midi Orchestrator Plus ver 2.11.24 by Voyetra Technologies (midi editing)
- Wlfaud Wolf 3D audio editor ver 1.1 by Bill Neisius
- Goldwave ver 4.25 Copyright 2001 Goldwave Inc (*.wav editing)
- Audio File Manager v.1.0 by DarkOne (for music replacement)
- Wolf 3D and Spear of Destiny (of course) by id software (who else)?!!!

And one last thing: should you ever encounter the term "betagraphiken saugen" anywhere 
in the game, it's just an "in house" joke between myself and MCS. Let's just say 
it was one of my poor attempts at German referring to some of my earlier "beta graphics" 
:)

Take care all :)
- AReyeP & MCS Amsterdam
  (November 2001)

