====================
=GUIDE TO SWITCH 17=
====================

-INSTALLATION-
Just paste over an existing REGISTERED copy of
Wolf3D. Don't be cheap, buy one if you don't
have one.
UPDATE 1/5/05: I've been getting some reports
of people having trouble with installing this
mod, and the reason lies in the VGA files. If,
and only IF you get a messed up screen when
trying to play Switch 17 (like, right at the
start), then you'll need the proper VGA files
to play. Snag them at:
http://www.dugtrio17.com/vga.zip

-WEAPON SETS-

Classic: You know these weapons quite well, I
hope. The sounds are a bit different to mix
things up a bit, but they're the same at heart.

Go4it: Weapons from a coding experiment of mine
a while back, dubbed "Go4it" because of the zip
filename. Hint: Pushwalls have replaced the
charge walls.

Rayguns: Oooh boy. These are a bit strange, but
hopefully fun. Their functions are noted by the
symbol drawn on them.

Mind Powers: BJ is one to dabble in a few extra
bits of literature, or at least he is now, and
he may have read a book on powers of the mind.
If he did, he'd find therein information about
throwing people, using mind bullets, and even
shifting pain to others.

Explosives: I'm going to be honest with you on
this one. If you don't have god mode on, you
WILL blow yourself up many, many times. Have
fun figuring out what each weapon does, I'll
leave that bit to you.

Uberpowered: The cheese of cheeses. I think the
cheese peaks at weapon three, and you'll see
what I'm talking about. Weapon two is cursed;
you CAN use it more than once per level, but it
has to take a nap for a while after it kills
something, union regulations or something. Be
warned, using it improperly can lead to
expulsion from reality. "Improperly" often
happens in large crowds.

Wizardry: Originally scheduled to appear in my
NOT DEAD TC "The Mark", but I've since redone
the whole game from scratch, and that includes
weapons and even the weapons system, so instead
you get 4 of the planned weapons for "The Mark".
That last spell's a doozy; eats up power, but it
does more than you'll probably ever figure out.

Fireworks: You ever hear about that kid who blows
his thumb off goofing off with fireworks? Now's
your chance to be that kid! Will you play it safe
with poppers? Or will you set off a spark volcano
and hope you run away in time?

-MODES-
There's two at the moment. I never said this would
be the last edition of this game, get off my back.
Classic: I needn't explain this.
Arcade: I need to explain this but... I won't.

-OTHER STUFF-
You'll have to figure it out on your own. Play on
the right days and you may get goodies... or the
shit scared out of you.

-THANKS TO-
Me, for getting off my ass and coding.
Poet, for the radius function and the "adding new
weapons" tutorial that I use as a checklist when
adding every new weapon.
Chris, for rocking on. And something to do with a
sound bug, too.
Sockman, for reminding me that this will come out
before Wolfback.
MCS, for various tutorials. The man's a genius.
WSJ, for the in-game messages tutorial and the
Heer sprites. Quit being on vacation, dammit!
Barbara, for requesting a new bust and waking some
voice in the back of my head saying "Photoshop!
Photoshop!", which was then quieted by the voice of
logic.
Majik Monkee, for his image world site that saved
me much trouble.
TobiXY, for the Barney Calhoun sprite set.
David, for the SS Variations sprite package.
Conner94, for converting that blasted missile
launcher.
Ringman, for the fish.
Tricob, for overseeing my growth and making sure I
didn't burn down the house. Or maybe that was mom...
Mom, for what I'm crediting Tricob for, I think.
Dad, for... wait, you don't get any thanks until my
application fee to State is paid for.
My keyboard for I CAN'T TYPE ANYMORE.

So yeah, basically this wouldn't be possible if it
weren't for tons of cool people, especially those
at the DHW forums. Rock on.
If I forgot you or you want your name mentioned,
dugtrio17 (at) dugtrio17.com might be the guy to email.

-ETC-
I was going to include new music with this bad boy,
but it's late and I'd rather stick with the regular
music than make crappy selections that'll clash with
gameplay.
This thing's not going to be perfect, but eh, I've
said before that I'm gonna update it in the future.
If you've got any bugs to report, do so in the
appropriate topic on DHW or drop me a line.
There's no new maps, either. This is actually an
interesting subject... see, I haven't mapped since
I discovered something very, very, very strange
about my mapping style. See, I map entirely for
gameplay and challenge, so my maps seem to turn out
pretty tough but pretty damn fun, even after playing
them over and over again. Of course, they seriously
lack in decorations, which is but one of the many
quirks with them. Ever since I found out that
something wasn't quite right with my mapping style,
I decided to retire from mapmaking (well, at least
from making maps by themselves).
Then I played something called CHOKAGE. Chokage had
tough maps, but they were fun as hell. Of course,
Chokage had an edge since it's got a nice environment
set by all its cool new graphics and sounds, but
the fact that they seemed to have mostly the challenge
and the gameplay in mind stuck in the back of my head
until recently. I took breaks to goof off while making
this thing, and when I did, I played Chokage. God, I
loved it. I was INSPIRED! I MUST MAP!
...wait, there's no maps with this thing. We'll chalk
it up to time constraints for the moment, but be
warned... some time in the future my maps shall strike...

I'm probably forgetting some other shit, but oh well.
In the end, all I care about this mod is whether or not
you had fun with it. If you did, then my goal is
accomplished.