A Touch of Nazi is a very challenging Wolfenstein 3D addon, though technically considered 
a Spear of Destiny addon. You'll want to play every floor in this one, so to assist 
you in getting the highest possible score, I have saved each floor from 1 through 
8, plus the secret floor 10, as at the end of the floor. I have 100% kill on each 
floor except 3, and full treasure and secrets on most floors. This will help you 
to find the secret rooms more easily than checking the perimeter of all rooms, like 
I did. Where there is less than 100% Kill/Treasure/Secrets, I did a thorough search, 
but could not find the remaining secret rooms. Should you be so inclined, you may 
look for them yourself, and perhaps, in so doing, better my score. I recommend that 
you not bother doing this.

The saved floors will allow you to explore a floor in its' entirety, (other than 
the unfound secrets), without worrying about being shot. You can get an idea of where 
the soldiers and/or mutants are, where the secrets are, possible locations of keys, 
etc.

My weapon of choice, whenever possible, is the knife, so I've been able to leave 
 a lot of ammo behind on the completed floors, so you'll have a better idea of where 
to find it. I also attempt to clear each room without loss of health, so most of 
the food and med kits are still strew about on the completed floors. In many cases, 
you have to go a fair way into the maze before you will find an ammo dump or medical 
supplies. On floor seven, in particular, I believe that all of the hidden ammo and 
med kits were behind one wall. Although there is plenty of ammo on each floor, it's 
seldom where you would want it to be, so get used to saving frequently. On floor 
seven, though, don't be too quick to save in some situations, because soldiers will 
attach simultaneously from your front and rear, and in numbers. When I came across 
this section of the floor, I moved away from that area and down a corridor that I 
had already cleared, so that they were all coming toward me from a single direction. 
This might work for you, as well. 

Here are some notes that I think you will find useful:

As mentioned above, the knife is very useful, especially at the beginning of floor 
one, when you only have eight rounds of ammo to start. There are four doors around 
the starting elevator on floor 1, and I was able to kill all of the soldiers in the 
first corridor behind each of those four doors exclusively with the knife. Most of 
the time when you have a right angle beside a door, or in a corridor, you can use 
the knife if you know where the soldiers are. Often multiple soldiers can be killed, 
one after the other, with the knife. Sometimes you can lure one or more soldiers 
away from his position, to a place where he can be stabbed. If you see one or more 
soldiers on a spot, and their ammo is still on the floor, you'll know I used the 
knife. Keep in mind, however, that if you see a pile of two or three soldiers, there 
may in fact be 5-15 or more on the same spot. Soldiers can't shoot while they are 
being stabbed. Do not, however, attempt to kill a mutant with the knife. It won't 
work. Note that the bodies lie where I killed them, not necessarily where I found 
the soldiers.

The Boss floors are 3, 8, and 9.

On floor 8, there is a large maze at the beginning. There are soldiers and mutants 
throughout, and they move around, unlike most situations where they wait until you 
are in proximity. You may have to clear a bit forward, then backtrack for the ones 
behind you. There are also several mutants in the floor 8 main maze. It's very large, 
and easy to get lost in there. The best way to navigate is to find a fixed point 
of reference, (the starting elevator is a good choice), and follow the perimeter, 
as you would if looking for secrets. When you get to one of the several dead ends, 
it's a good time to save. There are, eventually, two doors on the perimeter of the 
main maze. I didn't find any secrets in the main maze of floor 8, but there is one 
of the eight secrets that I didn't find, so it might be in there. It's probably a 
waste of time to look, unless you are attemting to get a perfect score. Don't bother 
if you haven't found everything on floor 3. 

You will have to do a lot of wall pushing, though. Most of the keys, and many of 
the soldiers, are behind push walls. Floor 7 actually has the elevator behind a push 
wall, but it doesn't lead to a secret floor. 

You're going to have to do floor 9 without any help from me. There are four bosses 
on floor 9. You'll have to kill one to get the gold key, and one of the other three 
to complete the game. Grab any remaining ammo before opening the locked doors.

To use the saved games, copy the SAVEGAM.WL6 file(s) and paste to the main game folder. 
If you use cut and paste instead, you will lose your saved end of floor file if you 
save over it.


Good luck, B.J.!

 