The Story:
You are BJ's other self, from the parralell dimesion opposite World War II. You have 
aided BJ to
stop the Nazis from building the ultimate chemical weapons and Mutant armies. A sorceror 
from your
dimesion, who was helping the Nazis, found out you helped BJ and paid you a visit. 
You were taken
into his castle, and he laid a curse upon you. This particular curse gives you long 
life, but makes
you remember painful times and relives them in your mind. And so it lasted for two-hundred 
years......

Amongst all the screams and voices in your head you filter one voice that says: BJ, 
this curse
upon you can be stopped, but it requires powerful magic. Foind it in the Sorceror's 
castle. Be
warned though, the castle is guarded well. And remember this: Once you have the book, 
you will
be taken to the lost dimension, a dimesion that is joined to both paralell dimesions. 
Be careful
there. Remember........ You make your way to the castle. You look up at it and sigh. 
This is going
to be rough.

You take a breath, and then enter the door.........

Enemies:
Ghost:
The Sorceror's main Guards. These require little mana to summon and maintain, so 
therefore they
are seen nearly everywhere. These are just like the normal guards in SOD.

Blue Ghost:
These are more powerful ghosts than the normal ones. These are just like the SS.


Headless:
These guys are dead Nazis from the other dimesion, and reborn, without a soul. They 
are quick
and strong. They are just like the Officers.

Doom Trees:
Elven treants taken by the sorceror and corrupted. They are storng and quiet, with 
unsuspecting
attacks. They are like Mutants.

Holey Dogs:
These are just like normal dogs, only with holes and Undead.

Bosses:
Master Ghost:
He commands the Ghosts for the Sorceror. Use caution when against him.

Medusa:
One of the only Medusa left in the Dimension. Watch out for the stone gaze attack.


Doom Tree Lord:
One of the seven great treants, who was taken and corrupted. Fast and deadly.

The Sorceror's Ghost Armour:
The Sorceror's own soul lives within this armour, taken from the other dimesion. 
Use extreme caution
when up against this boss.

The Other Dimension:
What awaits you on the other side? When you claim the book, you will find out.

Weapons:
Knife:
Your standard Combat Knife.

Small Orb:
Utilizes mana and fires it in a lightning bolt. Strong as a pistol.

Lightning Spell:
You can learn this from a Blue Ghost or by finding a box of lightning. Equal to a 
Small Machine
Gun.

Orb Of Destruction:
The best weapon BJ can wield. Uses mana at a fast rate. Equal to a chaingun.

Credits:
Created by Osiris

Special Thanks to:
Brian Lowe for distibution of the game
               AND
CYBERATOG for the D&D beholder