
                         
                                                         The Spear Of Toti

   This is MX Software's third game, it's has many features and source code changes.


  Totienstein 3D: Our first game, compare Totienstein 3D with The Spear Of Toti, 
the difference is noticeable, it was released on 2006. In that year, we were beginners.



   Return To Castle Totienstein: Our second game, Return To Castle Totienstein is 
a regular game, it's not good but it's not bad, it was released on 2008, just like 
The Spear Of Toti.


That was our two games, and this is the third, based on Spear of Destiny like no 
other MX Software game, OK, here starts the manual, enjoy the game.  

   Story: You are BJ. Blazkowicz.
                  Allied Forces: Mr. Blazkowicz, the Totis have the Spear of Toti, 
the same spear that Toti use to  	     kill all the Nazis, that's good, but they 
kill them because they want to conquest all the world, also 	     they want to kill 
us, so you have to steal the spear and burn it to save all the world of the Totis. 

                  also you have to kill Toti, the god of pain and destruction, when 
you take the spear, you will 	     	     be transported to Toti's Hell, in that place 
is Toti, waiting for you.
                  Only you can do it Blazkowicz.
                  Good Luck!

   

  Enemies: In the game, you will find 5 tips of enemies: The brown jacket guard, 
the dog, the SS officer,
                        the white jacket officer and the mutant.
   
   Brown jacket guard:
                                   	

                           This is the most regular enemy in the game, 2 or 3 shoots 
and he is dead.

  SS officer:


       This is one of the most hardest non-boss enemy in the game, they are extremely 
dangerous in groups.

  White jacket officer:


                  This is a fast enemy, is almost strong as the SS officer, but they 
use a pistol. 

  Mutant:

                                                The hardest non-boss enemy in the 
game. 

  Dog:

 The most hated enemy in a Wolf 3D TC. One or two shoot and he is a dead dog (I say 
two because he can eat dog food and that make him stronger). 






 

  Bosses: In the game you will find 5 bosses:

 Crime Lord:
  
  

                                                         The easier boss in the game.


  Colonel Muller:
 
  

           This boss is a bit more difficult than the Crime Lord, it has a chain 
gun and a rocket launcher.

  Grossemutant:

  

   A Schabbs version of Hans Grosse, Schabbs added four rocket launchers to make 
the things funnier.

  Toti Knight:

  

             Don't worry, isn't another member of the big Grosse family, he is the 
protector of the spear. 

  Toti (aka Angel of Death):

                                            The god of pain and destruction.





   The treasures are the same of Wolfenstein 3D, except for the Master Cup (is a 
purple chalice and it gives you 7500 points), the items are the same too.

    A Little tip: If you see a wall with a flag or something different to the other 
walls, check if this wall is a secret door. 

    This game is freeware, you may distribute it.



    

      Sorry for my English, I speak Spanish.

      Toti.




















