Wolf-Extra Epilogue 21 4SDL


Thank you for wanting to play Wolf-Extra Epilogue 21.


Wolf-Extra Epilogue 21 marks the 20th. anniversary of my fist Wolf-Extra and consists 
of 21 complex levels!


Wolf-Extra Epilogue 21 is not as puzzle heavy as some of my previous mods.
It is all the same recommended to leave a saved game at the beginning of the level 
you are currently on.
This will enable you to start anew on the level without losing lives in case you 
get into serious trouble after a quick save, or in case you feel stuck somewhere.


The zip includes the ChaosEdit definition files for Wolf-Extra Epilogue 21.
Be adviced that looking at the maps, and the content of the vswap, will spoil surprises 
in the game.

Wolf-Extra Epilogue 21 must be played with the supplied audio files.


You start each level with 100% health and a knife.

Wolf-Extra Epilogue 21 includes both new special features, and special features introduced 
in my previous mods.

I will leave most of the special features, new and old, as surprises for new players, 
but will hereby also explain a few.

The water puddle will destroy your standard ammunition unless your health is 20% 
or lower, in which case the water puddle will instead add 3 points to your health.


Some of the treasure items have special qualities. Do not take more of them than 
you actually need at any time, this will allow you to go back for more when you need 
them. Remaining ones can be collected before exiting the level for 100% treasure 
bonus.

Neccessary items are sometimes found in secret areas. Secret doors (pushwalls) are 
always marked/suggested in some way, OR they may be localized geografically (rooms 
you can see into or determine are there but where the entrance is a secret door).


Finding all secrets is not supposed to be unreasonably difficult.

In some of the levels you find pushwalls which block your retreat, somtimes leaving 
you with no ammunition. The areas you leave when passing such a pushwall may be accessible 
again later in the level, or not. In case of the latter make sure you have found 
all the treasures and secrets, and killed all enemies, in the area you leave behind, 
for 100% ratios.

Pacman ghosts are only found in some of the secret levels (not in standard levels). 
They are unkillable but this does not affect your 'kill' bonus.

For all levels, including boss- and secret levels, it is possible to get 100% ratio 
in all three bonus categories.

Have fun!


Paal Olstad (Poet).


p-olstad@online.no
