[Treasure Hunt Readme - Table of Contents]

1.	Introduction
2.	The story
3.	What the hell?
4.	Copyright notice
5.	Credits

[1. Introdution]

So, what is this thing exactly?
Treasure Hunt (subtitled Episode I: Escape from Gesundheit) is a Wolfenstein 3D mod 
by serpens (that’s me!). It is not exactly a major release, but a new mod coming 
from me is an exceedingly rare thing, so some of you might be curious as to what 
to expect. Thus, the new features include:
•	ten new levels (that’s the big one, believe it or not);
•	a new executable by Andy (both DOS and SDL incarnations);
•	a guest level by ack (now you’ll all download and play the mod just for this);

•	a slightly modified HUD;
•	a profound storyline (not really).

[2. The story]

Jorunal Entry no. [CLASSIFIED] Date [CLASSIFIED]
	Actually, it’s not classified at all. I just can’t remember what day it is. My head 
hurts. They hit me good.
	I can barely write, too. And not just ‘cause of the headache. Pen’s out of ink, 
so I had to use the dead guard’s blood. And while I’m on the topic of dead guards 
– what’s up with that? Sure, I might be incompetent enough to get captured all the 
time, but then they always go ahead and waste their advantage by placing a complete 
nincompoop on guard. Next time they’re gonna put a scarecrow in my cell.
	No matter. I happen to know that they brought me to Castle Gesundheit or some other 
Whateverstein, which is exactly where I was supposed to go in the first place, so 
those suckers have only done my work for me. See, Castle Gesundheit is where that 
Nazi guy I was ordered to kill resides. His name was too difficult to remember, though, 
so I’ll have to kill them all just in case.
	But that’s beside the point. I know one thing for sure – whenever the Germans move 
to their castles, they always seem to bring a whole heck of treasure with them. The 
bastard I’m gonna kill probably has all sorts of riches stolen from Turbanistan or 
whatever that country they conquered back in ’39 was called – diamond crosses, gold 
chalices and those lovely royal crowns – all just lying around the place. Waiting 
for me. Good thing I asked mommy for some pants with big pockets.
	Well, running out of ink. It’s kind of spilling on the floor too much. Time to finish 
this nonsense and go grab all those crowns. Hope they’re not too well hidden this 
time. Walking from wall to wall and kicking them to unlock secret compartments ain’t 
the most exciting job in the world. My right leg still hurts after that stupid Spear 
debacle.
	P.S. Why do I even bring you on missions, you useless piece of paper?

[3. What the hell?]

Precisely.
Well, OK, perhaps you deserve a few more words of explanation. This mod openly abandons 
any sort of attempts to tell a compelling story. I couldn’t come up with one even 
if I tried, anyway. In Treasure Hunt, killing the Nazis is a just and necessary means 
to achieve the highest of goals.
Crowns.
And you’re going to get just that – Nazis and crowns. And other treasure as well! 
Not in ridiculous amounts, no. It is reasonably dosed, usually hidden, often out 
of the way, always well guarded, and (hopefully) satisfying to find. 
In terms of audiovisuals and gameplay, the mod is pretty much pure vanilla. The changes 
are pretty much limited to flavor – a few things related to the treasure hunting 
theme, new ceiling colours and par times, music switched around.
All I aim to do is give you ten solid levels full of Nazis to shoot, treasure to 
grab, and hopefully fun to be had. Those ten maps are most likely my best effort 
to date and I sincerely hope you’ll enjoy them as well.



[4. Copyright notice]

Whatever. In the Readme file for my most significant release to date, Trilogy Revisited 
+ Nocturnal Missions, I clearly said that anyone can do anything they please with 
the maps included, as long as they let me know. And despite that, some wise guy had 
to come around and grab the maps for his RTCW themed mod without talking to me or 
crediting me in any way.
Clearly, copyright notices in freeware, hobbyist work like this are never going to 
be effective because the only way to enforce you will is by making a cute, sad face 
– and this only works for cats and puppies. Therefore, you are officially permitted 
to reuse, modify or otherwise mutilate the Treasure Hunt levels without notifying 
or crediting me at all. In fact, you are explicitly forbidden from contacting me 
when doing so. If you attempt to let me know you’re going to borrow my levels for 
your project, Hitler’s vengeful ghost shall haunt you for the remainder of your days.

Of course, the above does not apply to Andy’s executable or ack’s guest level. Those 
are not my work. Don’t touch them, ever.

[5. Credits]

MrWolfForever – for extensive playtesting and gameplay suggestions. And limitless 
patience.
Andy_Nonymous – for the very competent executables and undying willingness to help 
other human beings.
ack – for contributing a top notch guest level and calmly withstanding my laziness 
and antics in the process.
BrotherTank – some of the coding features come from his excellent Map of the Month 
package.
Indirect thanks go to the usual suspects (old id Software and the Wolfenstein community) 
for making the whole thing possible.
If you contributed and I managed to forget about you, please visit the DieHard Wolfers 
Forum and send me a PM along the lines of “include me in the credits, you stupidhead!” 
so I can fix my error.
That’s it. Have fun!
Serpens
