Crimson Kahnage

How New York Burnt in Nuclear Flame

The world never really recovered from the September Bombings. For the next six years, America fought dozens of military campaigns throughout the world to destroy the blight of terrorism. From old Yugoslavia to Israel, and even within its own continent, with the brutal attacks on the Brazilian peoples, after a link had been found that they had close links with hiding the remaining conspirators of the Bombings. After all of this, America never did truly regain her old sense of a passive observer, the pinnacle of the justice system. The world had been recoiling in shock from such a dreadful attack for a couple of years, but once they realised no retaliation had taken place, they stopped being so supportive of the war. A rift began to grow among Europe and America, and eventually the entire world began to frown on America's 'Immoral Crusade'. However, this rift was kept to its minimum distance by Europe as it felt America needed to regain its National Pride. On 23rd October 2003 American troops first entered Brazil, and rounded up all Black and Arab peoples living in the capital and charged them all with suspected treason. Before any charge could go against them, or any investigation begin, however, one of the offices who was left to guard them sent them all into a remote hanger on the secret air base where they were being detained, and shot them all. This man had a record of mental abnormalities, and was apparently a Hitler Worshipper when he was a child, and these alone were enough to exclude him from the military - and yet somehow he wasn't. Europe assumed that this was all a cover up by the American Government, and was enraged by this incident, especially France as three thousand of those killed were legal French citizens on a national holiday as part of 'Multiculturalism Week'. The world renowned military hero B. J. Blazkowicz was assassinated in a military parade in L”le. France was so enraged about the incident that it took it to Brussels and, to America's surprise and regret, Europe split from NATO, and passed a boycott on all American goods. This was a disaster for America, especially as they had only just recovered from the economic crises six years before, and the Stock Market crashed after two months. All America could do was restore itself as a viable country again, and to do this, it had to vanquish an old enemy. On New Years Day 2006, it sent troops into Iraq. Four months of vicious battles commenced, hastily put down by the European Parliament, with America loosing thousands of men, and women, and yet never actually progressing into the country. The war did, it seem, somehow restore America's self-confidence. The stock market began to recover, and American imports were gratefully accepted once again in the former Soviet Union. By some tragic turn of events, however, New York burnt in nuclear fire on April Fools' Day that year, the Star Wars project going hopelessly awry. Some suspected the Arabs, some the Blacks and some the Muslims. Bush, however, and his dedicated supporters thought differently. Clouded by hatred of the boycotts, Bush pointed the finger at Europe, and in a fit of anger launched a nuclear warhead, against public opinion, on London. Immediately, the city was evacuated, and Europe launched a full-scale war on America. Dozens of warheads were aimed and fired at all the major weapons installations in the 'Land of Freedom', and America in response did the same, but on a grander scale, involving the whole of Europe. Amidst all of this, the people of Iraq took their chance, and launched a nuclear warhead at Washington. This sparked off a entire Nuclear war and, within days, the entire world burnt in Nuclear Flame, nobody escaping the war between Europe and America. The Nuclear Bunkers were a failure, a product of faulty manufacture - all except a new design, tested by the Scientists of London Imperial College. It held five Scientists and, after ten years, they emerged from their bunker to find the world a ruin and, more imposingly, no longer ruler by the humans ...

How Kahn managed to take over Earth

For many thousands of years, a vicious frontier war was waged between the people of the Layphid Species and the people of the Krimnos Species. The Layphids were a relatively quiet people, but incredibly advanced technologically, while the Krimni were a tribal race of roaming warriors, desperate to engulf any species they encountered. The frontier war had been waged for centuries, and it was evident that the Layphids were winning. The leader of the loosing Krimni, Kahn the Oppressor, decided it was time for a new approach. They needed greater weapons to counteract the advancing Layphid frontline. They toiled for centuries, and found nothing that was more efficient than the weapons they were using, much to the delight of the Dermuda, loosely translated as 'leader', of the Layphids. However, on its way to Orion, the current position of the frontline, a scoutship passed by Earth, and saw its entire eastern flank (in this orientation anyway) lit up by a weapon of incredible magnitude - namely at Hiroshima. This was reported back to Kahn, who decided this technology would be vital in securing their victory. In his avaricious viewpoint, the best way to do this would be to take over the human peoples entirely. He ordered another scoutship to scoot by Earth and pick up a human subject with which he could gain more information about this ingenious race. They returned with a infamous human that had apparently been in hiding for three years, and who simply gave his name as Adolf. He described in great detail how great the human race was, and its universal ideal of fascism. He related how the buildings were decorated with the hooked cross symbol worshipped by all the people, and how everyone served under the one leader, the bearer of Nazism. This sparked off an idea in the head of Khan's advisors. They proposed a quiet invasion that would not be noticed by the Layphid Species. This would be done by using holographic materials to model themselves into into the images of the elite government of Earth, including duplicates of the great leader, as told by Adolf, called simply 'Herr Hitler'. They even created entire bases on the plans of their captor that would blend in perfectly with the Nazi Regime. Unfortunately, they were exactly sixty years too late for the regime by the time their work was completed. Besides, there holograms never did exactly reach perfection. The people's movements were staggered, the leaders knew nothing of politics, and their bases were incredibly uncoordinated, with no respect for harmony in decorations, if there were any, or in the types of wall they used. The mission would fail - but luck took an unexpected turn for them. By the time their ships had reach Sol, the world had been silent for two years. Somehow, the great race of humans had been destroyed. Kahn, having spent all this trouble to replicate the human species was angry, and decided to settle on Earth himself, sending his army and scientists there to research information on the human termed 'Nuclear Bomb'. What he had not counted on, however, was that there were still some humans left. A new design, tested by the Scientists of London Imperial College, had survived which held five Scientists. After ten years, they emerged from their bunker to find the world a ruin, and ruled by an alien warlord. They assumed that the damage on their world was the fault of this alien species, and one of their number, Alan Hollbrucks, decided to do something about it. He took a simple pistol from the weapons sector of the bunker and set out in a foolish attempt to 'save' the Earth. 

What will happen if he does not succeed? More importantly, what will happen if he does? 

Background







"They proposed a quiet invasion that would not be noticed by the Layphid Species. This would be done by using holographic materials to model themselves into into the images of the elite government of Earth, including duplicates of the great leader, as told by Adolf, called simply 'Herr Hitler'."



                                                                     Modelled on the uniform of the more senior members of  
                                                                     Hitler Youth, these men are everywhere, and are an easy  
                                                                    prey. Something seems to have gone awry with the 
                                                                    holographic technology, however, as these move far too 
                                                                    slow to be believable. DonŐt let that put you off your 
                                                                    guard, as they are all but deadly in packs.


                Hitler Youth



Modelled on the Gestapo, the carriers of raw fear in Nazi 
Germany, these troops were Kahn's main hope of persuading 
the people to follow his rule. Wearing the black uniform that
inspired fear in so many hearts, and carrying a machine gun
and 'bullet-proof' vests, these are certainly not troops to be
messing with too much in Kahn's labyrinth of tunnels.



           																																											 							Gestapo





                                             Modelled on the elite end of the SA, the propaganda  
                                             militia of Germany, these officers are fast and
                                             furious fighters, if a little quick to be true. These 
                                             troops can appear all over the place, and kill you in 
                                             seconds if youŐre not too careful. If you hear these
                                             around, watch your back.


      Elite SA Officer





These are the remnants of the poor souls who survived the 
nuclear attacks in their semi-permeable bunkers. Over the 
years, they mutated into hideous forms, and their minds 
seem to have been warped to KahnŐs ways. Their main weapon
is surprise, as they are completely silent, so, especially on 
the surface, keep an eye out for these at all times.


       																																																 Mutated Human






                                             No-one is exactly sure what these are. They may be
                                             a figment of AdolfŐs imagination, brought to life as
                                            ÔdogsŐ by Kahn. Alternatively, they may be the 
                                             Krimni in their true form. Whatever they are, they
                                             are relatively simple prey, but they can very easily
                                             eat up ammunition, and are surprisingly vicious
                                             when they attack in packs.

             Krimnos?














 Enemies 







"The Layphids were a relatively quiet people, but incredibly advanced technologically, while the Krimni were a tribal race of roaming warriors, desperate to engulf any species they encountered."


                                             These floating robots can be found just about
                                             everywhere around KahnŐs domain, especially on the
                                             mothership itself. They are cheap to build and are
                                             incredibly resilient to most forms of attack.
                                             Programmed with the German Language, these are
                                             not too tough a foe on their own, but later in the
                                             game they become a Nightmare as they attack in 
                                             larger and larger numbers.


  Security Robot 1.5



These machines are relatively rare in KahnŐs Workforce, 
luckily. They are very expensive to build, and pack a lot less 
fire power than the later editions. DonŐt take them too lightly,
however. They pack a mean punch, and can be quite 
surprising at times, and are much more resilient than the 
Type Ones. These are often solitary creatures, but when they
work in pairs, they work real havok.


																																																		Security Robot 3.4



                                             These robots are incredibly deadly and,
                                             unfortunately, can be found almost swarming around
                                             KahnŐs control station. They are hardly common as
                                             the Type Ones, but they have an incredible arsenal,
                                             equipped with both chain guns and missile 
                                             launchers. If you see these around, attempt to avoid 
                                             them at all costs. They can kill a human in one burst 
                                             of their guns, and it will take the strongest weapons 
                                             to defeat them. They rarely attack together, but 
                                             when they do, your only option is to kill one and run.

 Security Robot 5.8




Modelled on the dead Fźhrer himself, these enemies are a lot 
harder than they may at first seem. They are as quick as 
anything, carrying very little armaments, and yet somehow 
manage to be almost as resilient as the Type Five Robots, and 
pack almost twice the firepower of the Type Ones into a much 
smaller space. These are increasingly common the closer you 
get to Kahn, but, luckily for you, they detest working 
together. DonŐt be fooled by the holograms, these are real 
fighting machines.

																																																				Fźhrer Hologram

                                        There are pictures of this mysterious face hanging on
                                            almost all the walls near KahnŐs central control
                                            station. We can only assume that this is the being
                                            known as Kahn who is controlling the operation
                                            entirely. With all the holographic technology shown
                                            by the Krimni so far, we can assume that there will
                                            be clones, but that these clones will be relatively
                                            rare. Whatever happens keep on your guard, and
                                            watch out for these at all costs.


             Kahn?








Bosses







"He ordered another scoutship to scoot by Earth and pick up a human subject with which he could gain more information about this ingenious race. They returned with a infamous human that had apparently been in hiding for three years, and who simply gave his name as Adolf."

Floor 1 - Caverns

1-1: This is the relatively simple first level of the game, starting from the very moment Alan exits the Bunker. Be careful of the Hitler Youth lying at every turn, and keep a close eye out for a useful secret. The level exit is in the only place in the tunnels that contains something useful.

1-2: This level is even easier than the first. Deviate from your path as much as possible to find a great deal of useful supplies for your quest. Pick up a machine gun as early as possible, and search every inch of the tunnels to find the gold key. Once again, the exit is hidden in the place you would expect it to be.

1-3: This level is actually rather hard. The SA can take off quite a lot of health without notice, and they seem to prop up out of nowhere. You will have to explore every last corner of these tunnels, as the silver key is hidden somewhere eniterly unexpected. Once again, the exit is hidden in the most likely of places.

1-4: The final level of this floor, where you can enter the control centre of Kahn. This level is simple once you find your way in, and also simple in layout. However, it also contains your first encounter with a Type One, so be on your guard.

Floor 2 - Kahn's Fortress

2-1: This level is incredibly easy, and should pose no difficulty at all if you have come this far. There are supplies at every turn to prepare you for the battle ahead, and useful secrets aboud. Don't get too blazŽ, however, and remain on guard at all times.

2-2: This is another simple level that should pose no problems. You may even be able to complete it simply by using the knife alone. I have one word of advice for this level however - all that glitters is not gold. If something is made obvious, it is not always the best route to take.

2-3: Another simple level, but this contains a couple of tricky sections with the SA near the end. Keep your eye out for secrets as well as this one will give you even more supplies, and stock you up for the future. In the final rooms, make sure you have prepared your flamethrower.

2-4: This is a level made by my Sister that I feel should be placed here. It is simple, and yet can fool you into thinking it easy. Don't use up too much ammunition here as it will be vital later, and be sure to look for a secret to top yourself to full health for the next level.

2-5: This level is simply devilish, and bodes badly for things to come. As soon as you enter it, run for the door on your right with guns blazing. You'll meet a band of SA, but at least you'll be unharmed. This level relies greatly on patterns and symettery, and all secrets are one block away from a corner wall. Use this information wisely, you'll need it.

2-6: This level is relatively simple, with a large use of the flamethrower, but beware because it also contains your first contact with a Type Three. Use all the supplies given to you as much as possible, and remember that the best places to fight bosses are in large, open places. There is also a subtle homage to Hitler's Gymnasium in this level, is you can find it.

Floor 3 - The Inner Depths

3-1: This level can either be very hard, or very easy. From the very start, run like the wind, and have your flamethrower at every step. There are three ambushes here, from Humans, Hitler Youth and the SA, so make sure that you watch your back. If at all possible, spend a bit of time looking for some secrets that will lead you to great rewards, and prepare you for the next level.

3-2: This level could almost be called a boss level, and can be very hard indeed. Before you venture anywhere, make sure you equip the flamethrower and open as many doors as possible, guns blazing. With a bit of luck, and open space, you'll survive long enough to pick up the supplies in the corridors, and look for the almost hidden gold key. Remember, not all secrets are marked, but all follow a pattern.

3-3: As soon as you start this level, make sure that you have your Gatling Gun at the ready as you will be ambushed by dozens of SA. This level is, overall, much easier after this, and with plenty of supplies, so you can afford to be leniant but, just to be cautious, save your game as soon as you enter this level.

3-4: This level also starts hard, so start off with a particular direction in mind. Only when you are out of the initial doors can you hope to fight off the enemy. As before, there are plenty of supplies to cure you, so you afford to take a few hits, but not so many as before. Remember, not all secrets are marked, but all follow a pattern, and not all are as good as they might at first seem.

3-5: This level is starting to increase the pace of the game somewhat. It is set in two stages, one exploratory and one attacking, but both contain a boss. The first is a Fźhrer Clone and the second is a Type Five. Keep your guard, especially with ambushing mutants around, and make sure you don't loose too much ammunition - you really do need it for later on. If all goes well, and you vanquish your foes, you'll be on your way to the Mothership!

Floor 4 - MotherShip

4-1: This level is relatively short, but is very hard at times. Make sure you kill every last Hitler Youth in the docks before you proceed and check thoroughly, as they have a habit of propping up everywhere. Another word of advice, don't be too greedy. If you let yourself be too pushed, you'll meet a Type Five that could easily be avoided. A final word, beware of ambushed SA.

4-2: This is a really horrible level, and sets the tone for the rest of the ship. From the very beginning, you have to swim through a sea of Gestapo and SA. The entire level is swarming with an SA army, and a enitre unit of Type Ones. Beware, this level requires a lot of running around, and is very hard to complete without getting trapped. Move quickly, and remember that all secrets follow a pattern, and there is no such thing as wasted space.

4-3: This level looks a lot harder than it actually is and, if you miss all the non-essentail secrets, you'll only have to fight and easy Type Five, surrounded with supplies. This is your repayment for the previous level, and will replenish your supplies as before. One final thing, remember that there is no such thing, or point, in wasting level space.

4-4: This is one of my favourite levels of the whole game. It contains a simple theme that is repeated again, and again, and again. It should pose no worries as all you really have to worry about are single Type Ones, and the entire level is flooding with supplies. Make sure you're ready for the gruesome trio at the end however, and are prepaired to look for patterned secrets.

4-5: I only really have one thing to say about this level - curiousity killed the cat. There are dozens of rooms here that hold nothing but pointless enemies, and three different ways to get the gold key. Don't use up your supplies too early, however, as once again you'll have to face an entire unit of Type Ones, in a row. There is also a secret that defies the others and is in the most unlikely place. If you find it, use it wisely, but certainly don't get too greedy.

4-6: This level would be very hard on its own, but contains incredible amounts of supllies that makes it childs play. There are two things that one must know, however. The first is that Wolfenstein does not like you looking directly in the northenmost room when it is full of enemies, and may crash, so ensure that you only look at it directly when it is empty, and that you lure out all of the enemies in there. The second item is this - objects can be walked through if a secret wall passes over them. This should help you find the final method of reaching the end of the corridor.

4-7: This level can be much harder than it needs to be and is swarming with Type Ones. There are also many points where there are unnecessary rooms that are only there for your effort and could be avoided, while at the same time looking for two vital supply rooms. There are also dozens of secrets in this level, and you'll be surprised by just how obvious some of them are. However, as I keep saying, make sure you look out for patterns that could lead to secrets.

4-8: This level starts out incredibly easily, but becomes a real monster after you get the gold key. Make sure you have the missile launcher ready and waiting before you do anything too hasty, and try not to let the Type Ones escape into the art gallery area, while making sure you don't get cornered. Once the main threat is out the way, however, there is plenty of opportunity to recover before you leave and, it you're diligent, you can even find a way to stock up on your missile quota, and once again fleetingly meet a Type Three.

4-9: This level is nasty indeed, and can be a real drain on flamethrower gas. If you suffer from the Power PC problem, it is probably safe to secure the first building you come across, as it contains many doors. I have not yet had any troubles, but it is probably best to do this all the same, and it gives you a gold key. As I have said before, look for patterns in secrets, and assume that I have wasted no space in constructing these levels. Secrets in this level are lifesaving, especially with all the ammunition that can be lost. A final word of advice, don't stand around on this level for too long.

Floor 5 - Krimni Central Command

5-1: This level is my favourite level of this entire game. It follows such a simple plan and increases slowly in difficulty, particularly rewarding the observant and creative players. It can be quite hard to tackle some of the bosses you can encounter, including a Type Three, in such a short space, but all you need to do is keep running, and they cannot hurt you. If all else fails, return beyond a locked door, where they cannot, or will not, reach you.

5-2: As soon as you enter this level, run for the nearest door or you'll die. You may loose quite a bit of health by doing so, but there are plenty of supplies around that can help you out of this. The level itself is actually four times as large as it needs to be, although you'll be rewarded for each one you visit. As I have said before, look for secrets that follow patterns, particularly in this level, and you will have no worries. Just try to cross the middle of the level as little as possible.

5-3: This level is actually relatively easy, and a quick blast of the flamethrower will solve most of your problems for you. You'll meet a couple of Type Ones, but they will not harm you to any great degree, and you only need one gold key. In fact, you do not even need to engage the final room at all, and, if you're lucky, you'll end the level without being grazed. Just remember to look out for patterns, and unusual objects that haven't featured much until now.

5-4: This level is nasty indeed, especially for the unprepared player. Behind one of those doors is a Type Five, and indeed almost every other boss in the game, but it is only the blue key that will lead to the exit. If you fall lucky to the blue key, it may also be wise to look through the doors anyway as they can also conain useful supplies, including weapons and the all important Extra-Life. These will prepare you to face another entire unit of Type Ones, in a more difficult situation. The air-lock style doors will be a hindrance to Third Encounter Players as they will have to be opened manually, but not to Second Encounter Players. As I have said before, look for secrets patterns that may not be marked, and just because you have found a secret, it does not mean that it will not hold a battle.

5-5: This is another of my favourite levels of the game, and I think it deserves its title. The whole level contains a dizzying combination of dozens and dozens of fake lifts and patterned secrets that lead one to another in often the most unlikely places. The blue key is very well hidden, and you may not even be able to see it at all. Remember, you need not attack every enemy in a level, especially if you are several steps away from a locked door. Particuallarly, it would be unfair not to say that the pattern of secrets holds slightly true for the correct lift at the end of the level. Choose wisely, or you you will be subjected to force upon force of Type Fives.

5-6: As soon as you enter this level, turn around and pound the lift panel with all your might. I must say that this level has been tested and found possible on 'Death Incarnate' mode, nut simply requires a quick hand. Do not worry if you lose almost all of your health as it will be repayed later in kindness. The rest of level is really quite easily, and will leave you rolling in supplies. Just don't get too blazŽ about the whole issue, after all, you have to fight the only double Fźhrer Clones in the entire game, and use up quite a lot of gas in the final room. As I have said time and agin, look for patterns in secrets that will be useful to you, and they have been placed so that they can be found by the diligent. Why the Extra Life at the end, you ask? Just don't even think about how hard the next level will be.

5-7: This level is incredibly hard, and may take you quite a while to finish. It starts off relatively easily, with whole corridors of SA to kill, but it transends into a hellish state later on. You will find yourself back in the docking bay and, after you have found the marked secret and the hidden blue key, as well as the supply cache, you will be faced with an enitre battalion of nine, yes, nine Type Ones. Again, I remind you that this ame has been tested on Death Incarnate, and is playable, so don't let yourself sadden to soon. After all, you already have the key. After this, you will be subjected to some Hitler Youth and SA before you are subjected finally to Kahn himself - or is it? Enjoy the carnage, and I hope you visited the supply cache before hand!

Floor 6 - Surface

6-1: This level is actually rather easy, in comparison to the previous levels. In fact, this entire floor is designed to replenish your supplies from the Mothership and prepare you for the vicious final battle. This level itself will be repeated three times in this floor, and each time you will have something new to do. This time, it simply involves removing a unit of Hitler Youth from the streets and looking for a secret that breaks the pattern in that it is one block away from where you would expect it to be. Take care to watch your back at every turn, however, as there are humans waiting to ambush you at almost every step you take. It is, this time, impossible to gain 100% of treasures and enemy kills, but don't worry about it. There will be plenty of time to come back to this level later on.

6-2: This level is simple indeed, and the only points that are really difficult in it are when the mutants attempt to ambush you. Watch you back when you enter every room as it is very likely that there will be some mutants at your back, even in secrets. Make sure that you look for patterns, but this time it is in the walls. Every secret has been marked in this level, or is otherwise obvious, so look out for anything unusual, as it may well lead you to a great reward, or even the level exit. This level should be one for the Gatling Gun rather than the flamethrower as you will need a lot more later on. Don't let your guard slip, however, or some hidden mutants injure you severly, and you need your health for later on.

6-3: This level is short and simple, but that does not mean that it is easy. Equip your flamethrower as soon as you exit the lift, and keep it throughout the level. Make sure that you are not suprised again by ambushing mutants and also the fact that they may be able to hear you several rooms away, even if you cannot hear them. Also, check when you enter a room to see whether there is not a gaggle of mutants waiting at its centre waiting to injure you, as this can take a good deal of your health if you do not have your flamethrower ready. The boss at the end of this level may seem simple, but there is more to the battle than meets the eye, and the Fźhrer clone may just have some Type Ones to aid him in battle. Use the long corridors wisely, and don't forget to go back to the supply cache at the beginning once you have the gold key. As I have said before, look for patterns, but this level is a little simpler. There is only one secret, and it is easily marked in the pace where you would expect it. Just remeber that not all secrets lead to good things and, at this point in the game, tricks are starting to pile in on you.

6-1: This level is almost exactly the same as the first time you met it, but now it has another section that you can visit that will lead you straight to the next level. The Hitler Youth unit may have been killed off, but that does not mean that the mutant humans will still not be around to attack you. As soon as you appear in the level, in fact, there will be one in the lift with you, so, as soon as you can, turn around and kill it before it can do you too much damage. There are plenty of supplies lying around as well, so make sure you pick them up before advancing to the next level. As I said before, take care to watch your back at every turn, as there are humans waiting to ambush you at almost every step you take. It is, this time, impossible to gain 100% of treasures and enemy kills, but don't worry about it. There will be one more chance to come back to this level later on.

6-2: This level is very short indeed, and is almost entirely constructed around the very rewarding secret patrolled by two Type Threes. If you miss out on this entirely, then all you will really need to do is equip the flamethrower and give the mutants all you have. As with most of the levels in this floor, there are mutants waiting to ambush you at every turn, and this includes Type Ones if you remember to look for patterns and find the path to the double Extra-Lives. Remember also that ambushed mutants need not only be in pairs, and indeed entire squadrons of mutants can be hidden behind two or three ambushed ones. As I have said before, keep an eye on your back, and make sure that you don't let any mutants sneak up behind you.

6-3: This level, suprisingly enough, is the shortest level in the game. That hardly means it will be easy, however. If you forget to look for patterns and find the one very valuable secret, this level will be made a lot harder than it really needs to be. In the second room you enter, you will be faced with a battle between two Type Fives, and this level will also meet your first forced encounter with Kahn clones. Remember, before you enter the second room, you must look for secrets, and also remember that you do not need to fight every boss in your way to reach the exit. All you need in this level is to kill one Type Five to get the blue key and, if possible, you can scoot your way around the others. Just don't forget that there can be many other things waiting to ambush you as well as humans.

6-1: This level is almost exactly the same as the first time you met it, but now it has several more sections for you to visit before you reach the path to floor seven. All the previous supplies and treasures have remained in tact, but now it is possible to find another supply cache, complete with an Extra-Life, which will be vital in surviving the final floor of the game. As you explore areas you couln't before, just remember that there is no obligation to kill every single enemy in the level, especially with two Type Fives in the elevator room, and you will get little credit for it. In this level, it is finally possible to gain 100% on all the percentage bars, but it will be difficult. Whatever happens, keep a close eye on your environment as the mutants are back in even greater numbers to make your life a misery, waiting to ambush you at every turn. Just remember that, as I keep saying, look for patterns and obvious markings to find the final secret in this level, and make sure you are not too suprised by the army of mutants waiting for you. Finally, when you're ready, you're off to floor seven!

Floor 7 - Below the Earth

7-1: This level is the third most difficult in the game, and certainly deserves that fact. From the very first second you enter the level, you must turn around and push the wall behind you with all of your might to escape the blast of the Type Five. From then onward, you will be faces with whole swathes of enemies, but with a catch. Most of them will be in large rooms covered with pillars. This will mean that you cannot use your flamethrower or missile launcher whatsoever, and will have to stick to the pistol, machine gun and gatling gun alone. This level may really try the patience of some, but it is well worth playing. Remember that secrets follow a pattern all the time, and that they are in places you would most expect them. Three final things. Firstly, you do not need to kill all the bosses in this level to get through it unscaved. Instead, you can lure them into another part of the level, or quickly run past them. Secondly, remember that objects can be picked up, even keys, from the south-east corner of a structure, which will look like the north-east to you. Finally, save your game before you touch any lift panel as this level is very nasty, and contains trap lifts where you least expect them. Pull wisely, and remember that it can only get worse from now on.

7-2: This level is actually rather easy if you take the correct route through it. The first room is very tough, with very little room to manouver around the Type One, but once that is out of the way, the rest of the level is simply navigating similar caverns to the ones you faced at the beginning of the game. Ambushed enemies will await you at every step and, because this is the last floor, this includes Type Ones. Your best bet is to stay out of open spaces, and only go where there are long, dark, passages. Your ultimate goal is to find first a gold key door, making sure you are not suprised by a Type Five where you least expect it, and then to find a blue key door, where you will find your exit. As a bout of kindness, all the secrets in this level are forced, so it will be impossible for you not to gain 100% on that particular setting, giving you as many points as possible. Secondly, especially through the blue door, do not kill more enemies than you sensibly need to. Your only true goal in this game is Kahn, and however many enemies you kill on the way in the end does not really matter. Don't get too blazŽ on the matter, certainly, but just don't kill any enemies that could drain vital ammunition.

7-3: This level is actually rather simple, and is only made hard by a gaggle of SA that seem to get just about everywhere. Your main weapon for this level should be the flamethrower, and if you're lucky, you can wipe out most of the enemies in this level in one go. Once, however, you have reached the room behind the lift you started in, you will awake the entire SA unit, and they will start attacking you from every flank. Your best chance of survival will, oddly enough, be in the rooms they come out of as they are filled with supplies, and they lead onto the rest of the level. Once you have dealt with them all, do a final sweep of their hiding place just to make sure there are none waiting around to injure you when you finish the level. When that is done, you are faced with the simple challenge of four Type Ones and a Type Five. This can be easily won, especially if you chose the room with the patterned secret, if you lure your competetors into the long corridor you enter the level from. One final thing, you need not kill all the bosses if you do not have the supplies simply because all you need is the blue key. As soon as you have got this, make sure that you don't become too interested in the layout, or you may fall victim to another brutal assault of the same magnitude. Your best chance is to get the key and then to get out.

7-4: This level is the largest in the game, and is made up almost entirely of huge swathes of useless parts of the map. The actual path is actually quite short, but if greed gets the better of you, you'll be in for a shock. Four units of treasure guarded by a Type One? This level seems to have things out of proporsion, and quite rightly so. Not every secret on this level follows the secret pattern which may make it quite awkward to find them all, but just remember that the writer is not one for wasting too much space in a level, and even the simplest items out of place can indicate a secret. If you really do explore hard enough, it is possible to find an entire cache of supplies and an Extra-Life before you brave a Type Three before the next level, but, in all honesty, you do not really need them. A final thing, make sure you watch your back at every step, and don't take any room for granted. Any enemies from the Krimni to the SA could be waiting to ambush you, so don't take your eyes off your back. Basically, the message for this level is not to be too greedy, and to use your eyes to find the exit that is right in front of you. Don't get too carried away here and, most importantly, don't forget to watch your tail.

7-5: This level is actually a whole stream of levels, cast in the theme of level 1-3 of Wolfenstein, taken from the very words of Adolf himself. Each variation contains more and more complexity on top of the other, and each one will involve finding secrets following the secret pattern. If that fails, just look for secrets where you would expect them to be, as that is usually where you will find them. There are plenty of supplies dotted throughout these levels, and this alone should supply you for the penultimate level of the game. Also, on every level, almost everything tht remained on the last level according to layout will be there so, if there is a section you cannot get to, try entering tunnels you found on previous levels. On each of these levels also is a Kahn replica who can be found in a lift, but only one lift will open at any one time, so you will have to find which one it is yourself, even if it involves finding a secret. On each of these levels too is an Extra-Life to be found in the same place it would be in 1-3, but using different secret walls to get to it. Can you find it in every variation? After you have completed all of the variations, you will be faced with the true level 7-5, which is a Nightmare. I shall leave it to you, as a challenge, but there are a few things I should say that will help you. Use up ammunition as necessary, but do not use up too much as you will need it later on. Also, after you leave the room containing the second blue locked door, search first for a secret before you enter the 'lift'. The lift will in fact be an ambush with four, yes, four Type Fives! Without the supply cache found in the secret, this battle would be all but impossible. After it is done, you have almost done everything needed to progress to the final level of the game. But which lift is it? I will give you one clue:

The correct lift can be found by taking the lift that is the most difficult to enter. Good luck!

The Final Floor - Kahn

? - ?: You may have to blink twice to actually believe that this is the final level as it is exactly the same as one of the previous levels of the game, but with several differences. Seeing as this is the last level, I will say very little, but what I do say will hopefully relieve some trauma you have, and help you to win. Just remember that this game has been completed on Death Incarnate mode, just, and therefore is definately completable with anything less. The first thing is this. The location of the blue key has moved, and it may at first be quite difficult to find it. It is actually hidden in a secret behind one of the doors, and it is behind the door containing the only enemy duplicated in the first section of the level. Be wary, though, as this secret contains a Type Five that could easily drain your ammunition. Make sure you use the ammunition given to you wisely as you will have to lure a lot a Type Ones out into the initial arena before you can tackle Kahn. It may well be impossible to kill all the Type Ones, so look out for one that behaves slightly differently from the others. It may take him a while to emerge, but he will come, and once you blast away his armour he'll actually reveal himself as Kahn! Good Luck, and I hope you enjoy the final battle of the game! 

Level Details

"By the time their ships had reach Sol, the world had been silent for two years. Somehow, the great race of humans had been destroyed."

I have decided to include this page in this docment for all those people out there who do not know there is a thriving Macintosh Wolfenstein community out on the internet just waiting to be found. Here are a couple of links I think will be useful to you:

http://clubs.yahoo.com/clubs/wolfenmac - This is the hub of the Wolfenstein Community, and where almost all of the current developers gather to discuss current topics. They gladly except new members, and any new topics they might have for discussion. This is a starting point for any fan of Wolfenstein for the Macintosh.

http://www.geocities.com/TimesSquare/3744/ - This page may be out of date, and its web designer long gone, but it is a great monument to one of the greatest developers of Wolfesntein ever. It is worth seeing this page just to see how much it is possible for one person alone to do so much, and to single-handedly ressurect the game. This is indeed a site of inspiration, and contains some very good scenarios also.

http://www1.linkclub.or.jp/~clubey/ - This site is by far the most influencial site in the Macintosh world of Wolfenstein in this age. It's webmaster, Clubey by alias, has done incredible amounts for the Wolfesntein world, and is well on the way to showing himself as the Modern Day Laz Rojas. He is making dozens of scenarios and has conducted great research into the fields of everything Wolfenstein, and that doesn't exclude the game on other platforms either. If you are planning to make a Wolfenstein level, but are not sure whether you would have enough experience of making levels, just drop him a line. He will be very helpful, and will always guide you in the right dierction. His particular speciality is dealing with new developers, and that also included me, if that is inspiration for you.

Developing

I have always thought that developing a Wolfenstein Scenario was only a job for the most experienced of designers, and the most diligent. Wolfenstein was, after all, hardly my genre as I am not the best player in the world, and my talent is more to do with writing. Nevertheless, all that good scenarios need, I feel, is motivation. It matters not if you do not know the difference between a Hans Grosse and a Trans Grosse, and if you haven't memorised the entire game, because you don't need to. Quite frankly, all a developer needs is an idea. If your first levels don't work, then try again and again until they do. If they don't stand up to scenarios by Laz or any other lofty developer, don't despair, you'll get it right in the end. Here I am, making a scenario a couple of years after I was daunted by WolfAddict. Don't worry yourself about this, every developer adds something new to the community, and there are plenty of people out there who would love your scenarios and will think them brilliant, even if you don't. Good Luck on making your own levels!

Timed Levels

I've never truly believed that timed levels are the best way to approach Wolfenstein, but it seems that they are admired by the wider world. There is a way I propose to except them, however. The best way to attempt a scenario, I believe, is to first try simply to complete the game finding as much about it as you can. Then, play the game again, trying to get 100% stats on every single level, which can be very tough indeed. Finally, play every level and try to reach the end under the par time, which can be very difficult indeed. On Crimson Kahnage, I have tried to make the pars as hard as possible to achieve. Each level will take up a lot of supplies to achieve under the par time, and will avoid most enemies and eat up flamethrower gas like anything. Therefore, completing each level under the par time will be very difficult indeed as you will miss out on a great deal of supplies that are necessary for your survival. Therefore, only try to meet par times if you really want to. As a token to your frustration, each one of these par times have seperately been reached on 'Death Incarnate' mode, some only just, so they should certainly been achievable on the lower modes. May you have a rewarding time playing this scenario.

How this game came about ...

I first have to say that Crimson Kahnage was not my idea at all. The bare structure of it was down to one of my closer friends, called Thomas Nash, who wanted to create a scenario that would be radically different than any others that had been made at the time. He came up with a rough story line, that is slightly different to how it is now, and arranged a team that would construct it. We had a MIDI designer, who never found the time to do any, several level designers who were overloaded with work, and an incredibly gifted artist, who got bored after the first few drawings. Nevertheless, we did not give up hope, and Tom gave his name to the project - 'Crimson Carnage'. This was hardly my viewpoint on the game at all. I have always viewed Wolfenstein as a journey, a way to escape a tower where you are held prisoner, and not as a bloodbath. I realise now that this is only one angle on the game engine, but this is of little worth. Unfortunately, a few weeks into the project, Quake was released, and the entire work was abandoned and forgotten by everyone, except me. I have always wanted to create a Wolfenstein Scenario, and my aim was to create one that would rival anything Laz created. I have failed, I think, purely because I was up against too good a man. Nevertheless, I have porgressed and, with a bit of encouragement from Clubey, I spent the good part of the Summer on it, and somehow the name stuck, with the slight allusion to Kahnage. I have never quite worked out why, as it is against my beliefs on how the game whould be played, but it did, perhaps as a homage to that earlier, failed project. Whatever happened, the work is complete, and I am progressing on to hopefully greater things under a growing envelope of the world of Mac Wolfenstein. A lot has changed in five years ...

My Views on the events of September 11th 2001

I felt I should include this section here as I feel that I may perhaps be a barrage of hate for what could be expressed as negative feelings for the event. I must first say that I do feel sorry for what happened that day, and for the thousands upon thousands of people who died. My story is not in any way a prediction of what events will occur in the future, and in some way the Layphid and the Krimnos were placed here to add in a warped sence of reality. I do not believe that America is capable of massacring innocents, or possible of waging war on Europe. I have simply manipulated events that could possibly happen for my own ends. It is incredibly unlikely that such events will occur precisely as they hav edone in the story itself. After all, why would it be beneficial for me to assume that all this will lead to nuclear war? Put simply, I, like everyone else, feel for the people affected by the September Bombings, and I feel that such an act should be discouraged, but I also, somewhat through a warped sence of pride, attempt to see past the propaganda shown on our screens. I also feel for the people of Afghanistan, the innocents who are being slaughtered no matter what we are being told, and of how this war has been so limply thrown about as a simple excuse for a moral building crusade. Do not think that I am an anarchist, or that I support terrorism, but I feel that America is fighting a war it cannot win. Destroying terrorism will mean destroying civilisation itself, I believe. Let the person without some kind of sin throw the first stones at Afghanistan. Let me put my views more compassionately. I am devastated that so many people died needlessly in the September Bombings, and even more that it was aid workers, and not any others, who died as a result. However, I also feel for the people America is targetting too. As you can see, I love life, and will say anything to make sure as much life is spared as possible. I am a passifist, it seems, and I have bad feelings of war. I was shoked in September, I really was, but I am still shocked by how America may be retaliating too hard on the 0.001% of the population of Afghanistan who hate America so much that they will give their lives for them. I must say again, I respect the dead, but I wish the deaths could stop now. As I have been told from childhood, two wrongs will never make a right.

If you're interested, my e-mail address is:

Nebogipfel@hotmail.com 

Wolfenstein   







"What will happen if he does not succeed? More importantly, what will happen if he does?"



























'Crimson Kahnage', 'Kahn', 'Alan Hollbrooks', 'New Frontiers' and 'The Phriggian Era are Copyright to Hugo Janacek © 2001

Nebogipfel@Hotmail.com