Hello all you Wolf-3D fans out there!

I have modified level 1 just slightly (!) to make it a little
more difficult (actually, a lot more difficult).  Even I have
trouble getting through on Death Incarnate.

First of all, thanks to Apogee Software for a great game...

Thanks to Bill Kirby who made a great map editor...

Now, the hints:

1) Look for secret doors  *See Footnote
2) Use tactical maneuvering when in a battle
3) Try to remain calm when you enter the maze and can't get out!
   (you can with just a liiiiiiiiiiiitle patience)
4) Only level 1 has been altered, but it should keep you busy,
   try to find everything
5) Yes, it is level 1 but you will have trouble recognizing it
6) Levels 2-10 are normal and I will modify them 1 at a time in
   the future
7) Keep track of extra health and ammo, you are going to need it.
8) The game is not quite perfect, I need some more hints from
   others who have done this.  *See Footnote
9) Check those corners!!!!!!!
10) There are LOTS of goodies!!!!



Let me know what your scores are and what kind of problems you
seem to encounter.  This is a fun game and this should keep it
interesting.  Of course, there is no charge since the game
belongs to Apogee.  Happy gaming!

Bobby Palmer

(you can reach me on Channel 1)

* Footnotes from the Wolfmaster:

Save your game before you try to find any secrets.  Save it each time
before you search.  If you find a secret but it only moves back one
space, load the game and try again.  Keep trying this, each time
waiting a different period of time before you try the secret door
again.  The problem is this; in a game with "moving guards", they can
move to unexpected places.  One of these unexpected places is behind
a secret door.  If a guard is there when you push on the door it won't
move back far enough to allow you to pass.  Given time the guard will
move and you can (if you saved the game) try again.  Apogee avoided this
by using turning points and other tricks that Bobby didn't bother with,
I added some but it's not a total fix.  Don't fire your gun until you
really see something to kill or you'll never even get started.
Otherwise it's a real good level.

I have fixed some of the other problems Bobby spoke of, but I did not
change his game.  For those who are interested, you must input floor
values or you'll have trouble.

Carlton Griffin
