Wow, sorry about the LONG storyline that follows. I guess I got a
bit carried away! Oh well, I hope id software don't mind me doing all
this. Hell, without id software, we wouldn't have classic games like
Wolfenstein and Doom to stuff around with! But, I figure that as they
turn a blind eye to the thousands of Doom add ons, editors etc etc
freely available on the shareware scene, that hopefully they won't mind
this add on storyline for "Wolfendoom". After all, the only thing I'm
getting out of this is a bit of fun, but, hopefully for id software, it
may entice a few more people to purchase the registered version of the
original classic, Wolfenstein 3D.

     Well, a game without a background story is a bit like a novel 
without a plot; meaningless. So here's a background story to give
"Wolfendoom" some meaning!

                           W O L F E N D O O M
                           ===================

     "Doom", as we all know it, is set in the future. Let's go back in
time, to the present, when a fledgling company known as the Union 
Aerospace Corporation (UAC) was in the process of establishing itself
in the business world.

     It's a cold and rainy Sunday morning, and you find yourself standing
outside the main entrance to UAC1, one of the 6 UAC sites in existence.
You were recently employed here, and, as you pace back and forth, 
contemplating the enormity of the task you are about to undertake, you
think to yourself; "Is it worth it?"

     Maybe it would just be easier to forget this whole idea and go back
home. Let UAC go to hell. After all, they'd brought their problems on
themselves. And they'd hardly treated you well, either! But there was
more at stake than just UAC. You realised the coward's way out was not
an option, after all, you were no coward!

     Your name, of course, is none other than B.J. Blazkowicz Jnr, son
of the famous World War II veteran. You've heard all your dad's war
stories, and have always hungered for the opportunity to emulate his
feats.

     You pondered the events that had led to you being here outside
UAC1. You'd spent many years working for the military, occupying
senior officer positions. That's what led to UAC snapping you up when
you applied for a job with them a few years ago as a senior military
consultant. With UAC's heavy involvement in military related projects,
you were their ideal choice for the position. And so, for the past few
years or so, you had excelled in your position at the fledgling UAC.
Things couldn't have been better, or so you had thought until just a 
few short months ago...

     It all started when you attended the UAC1 General Manager's office
one day to present a report on a project you were involved with. On
entering his office, you couldn't help but notice the eye catching
object sitting prominently on his desktop. It was in the shape of a life
size human skull, but crafted from what appeared to be a dazzling blue
sapphire like material. The General Manager had immediately acknowledged
your obvious interest in the skull.

     "Oh, I see you're quite taken by my new `paperweight', B.J." he had
laughed.

     "Paperweight?" you had replied. "It looks like a damned expensive
type of paperweight!" you'd exclaimed.

     It was the General Manager's delayed response that aroused your
curiosity. 
     "Oh, it's nothing, really. Just a gift from the boys down in
Research, actually. Ahh, the report, B.J., let's see it, I've got a
busy schedule, you know."

     Well, he'd dropped that subject like a hot potato! Boys down at
Research? You left the General Manager's office shortly after, wondering
what the hell the UAC Research team guys were doing sucking up to the
General Manager in such a seemingly extravagant, if not unusual, fashion.
Ahh, what the hell, you had work to do, so you quickly put the skull out
of your mind. But it didn't stay there long.

     The following week you visited a colleague's office to check on a
business matter, only to find him out. Grabbing a notepad from his desk
to leave him a message, you noticed a shimmering red object on the floor
behind an indoor plant. Leaning sideways, you positioned yourself to get
a better look.

     Another skull. Except this time, the most intoxicating ruby red.
Intrigued, you picked the skull up off the floor and closely examined it.
     
     The craftsmanship was flawless. It was as if an actual human skull
had been somehow crystallized, such was the detail etched into it. As
you carefully turned the skull over in your hands, you all of a sudden
became aware of someone watching you. Turning around, you saw your
colleague standing at the entrance to his office.

     "Not bad, is it?" he smiled, looking at the skull in your hands.

     "A gift from the boys at Research, eh?" you quipped.

     "Yeah! Dead on. You got one too, eh?" he replied. But before you
could reply, your colleague closed his office door and continued
rambling on, albeit in a lowered voice.
     "I've been told the red ones are special. I've done a few favours
for the Research boys in the past, and they gave me that as a way of
saying thanks. Most of the others they've given away are the blue 
sapphire variety. Doesn't matter much, anyway; their real value is highly
questionable as no one can tell us what they're really made from. Looks
like gemstone, but apparently just an imitation of sorts."

     You still couldn't understand any of this "skull" business.

     "Well, why the skulls? Where are they getting these things from?"
you asked.

     Your friend pondered for a moment before replying.
     "Who knows, B.J., who knows. All I know is that there's been a lot
of excitement down in the Research department lately. I know a few of
the fellows down there pretty well, and although they won't say anything
to me about it, I expect they're toying with some new experimental
material. Those skulls are probably just a bit of a joke, but you try
smashing one, B.J.! Almost impossible to even dent the things! And I
back it in that they're made from this new experimental material. Well,
at least that's my guess, anyway."

     Well, so much for that. Although all of this remained a bit of a
mystery, it seemed somewhat more trivial now. Perhaps your friend was
right about the development of a new material. But in the weeks to come,
other odd things were to occur that would make you curious as to what
was really going on down in the UAC Research Department.
     
     Firstly, there was the increase in UAC armed personnel patrolling
the site. Normally, due to UAC's involvment in military projects, many
of which you were personally involved with, there were always a number
of armed troopers, employed by UAC, patrolling the site. But no military
projects you were involved with warranted this dramatic increase in the
number of UAC troopers on site. Security had more than doubled in the
space of a few weeks, and on the spot I.D. checks of UAC staff by 
troopers had become a daily occurrence rather than just a random event.

     And something else had caught your attention. Due to your executive
position, you had ready access to information regarding freight movements
to and from the UAC site. On checking whether a consignment of parts for
a project you were involved with had arrived the previous day, you 
couldn't help but notice the dramatic increase in freight movement in and
out of the site. Incoming freight had almost doubled, and outgoing
freight had more than tripled! Just in the space of a couple of months!

     Something decidedly fishy was going on. Your thoughts kept returning
to the sudden appearance of those unusual skulls. Damn it, in your
position, you should know what the hell was going on! And so you made
that fateful decision to investigate just what it was. 

     Obviously, the Research Department seemed to be the centre of all
this odd activity. However, there was no way you were going to be able
to access that area unless special security clearance was given. Fat
chance of that! It seemed the next most logical way of gathering clues,
though, was to investigate the increase in freight consignments entering
and leaving the place. So that would be where you started your
investigation.

     Working back late one evening, you decided the time was right. 
Leaving your office, you strolled down to the secured entrance leading
to the main freight containment areas. Inserting your key into the
computerized access panel, you heard an audible "click" followed by
the sound of the steel security door sliding sideways. "ACCESS GRANTED",
so you were informed by the access panel. Ha! You'd feared that your
access rights to this area may have been changed what with all this
increase in security, but such was not the case! This may be easier
than you thought! But, as you neared the loading bay entrance to
the main stores, two UAC troopers approached you.

     "I'm sorry, sir, but this is a restricted area" exclaimed one.

     "Since when have the stores been restricted to the likes of me?"
you queried.

     "Orders from the General Management, sir. No one to enter the 
stores outside of working hours unless proper authorisation is given."
replied the trooper.

     "I've got news for you, sonny!" you retorted. "I've got a damned
important freight consignment sitting down here. I'm personally
responsible to ensure nothing happens to it."
     
     You were stunned when the trooper cocked his rifle and aimed it
directly at your chest. "I'm sorry, sir, but I have strict orders!"

     Your response was quick. "How dare you point that thing in my
direction! Do you know who I am? I'll have your head on a platter for
this!"

     It worked! The trooper lowered his weapon slightly, and replied:
     "Sir, I'm sorry, but, my orders were to stop anyone coming in here
after hours..."

     You decided to continue with the overbearing tone. The stories your
father had told you of those SS officers at Castle Wolfenstein had taught
you a trick or two, after all!

     Look here, young man," you replied, "I'm working back late tonight
to make sure this project is ready to go first thing tomorrow morning.
If that consignment isn't ready, it'll jeopardise everything." Pointing
your finger at the troopers chest, you added "and if that happens, I'll
hold you personally responsible!"

     The two troopers looked at each other. The one that had been doing
the talking turned towards you, and, motioning with his rifle for you to
enter the main store, said, "Ten minutes only, sir. That's all I can
allow."

     Deciding not to overdo the arrogance, you replied "Ten minutes is
all I need, thankyou", and with that you headed into the large main
storage area.

     Out of sight of the guards, you quickly scanned the interior of the
store for other guards or cameras. You were in luck - none in sight!
Hidden cameras may be a possibility, but, hell, you knew risks would
have to be taken. Besides, your gut instinct told you something nasty
was being covered up here. Time was precious - you moved quickly.

     You headed over to a corner where a new consignment of incoming
freight containers had been stacked against a wall. A quick check of the
consignment numbers indicated that these containers all had the same
contents. Taking one more cursory glance around yourself, you used a
steel bar you'd found against a wall to pry the top off one of the
containers and reveal the contents.

     Automatic rifle ammunition! So, all these containers, and there 
were hundreds of them, contained ammunition! OK, you could understand
that a certain amount of ammo was needed for the UAC troopers on site,
but hundreds of containers of the stuff? C'mon, this was overkill!

     Quickly, you headed to another area loaded with incoming freight
containers. Once again, all labelled with identical consignment numbers.
A quick jerk of the steel bar and the top of one was off, allowing you
to peek inside.

     First aid kits! What was all of this? Stockpiles of ammo, and now
stockpiles of first aid kits! It was as if UAC were preparing for all
out war! Something very strange was going on, of that you were now
certain. And you were determined now, more than ever, to get to the
bottom of this.

     The outgoing freight. That had to yield the key to this whole
business. What could UAC be shipping out of this place in such large
quantities? Well, you were about to find out. Having moved over to the
outgoing freight containment area, you found yourself confronted with
hundreds of large crates all with similar consignment numbers. And all
marked with highly classified government or military research 
institutions as their destinations. This would be interesting. Acting
quickly, you forced the top off one of the crates to reveal...
                                                        
     Skulls! Hundreds and hundreds, indeed, thousands of those damned
skulls that had been appearing around the place. And blue vials 
containing some sort of fluorescant liquid. What was this stuff? And
then something caught your attention. A few containers, stacked 
seperately from the rest, in a remote corner. The outside of some of
these containers were slightly frosted over with ice, indicating
something cold inside. You'd already used your ten minutes - you had to
act very quickly now. 
     
     Forcing the lid off one of these crates, you found the inside to be
filled with crushed dry ice. Carefully brushing aside the top centimetre
layer of ice, you found that something was being stored in what appeared
to be...

     You brushed aside some more of the ice, careful not to burn your
fingers with the intense cold it generated. It couldn't be? Or was it?
It was! A body bag! A chill ran up your spine. Finding the zipper, you
carefully unzipped the bag to peer in at what lay within.

     You'd never seen anything like it before. It was a body, no doubt,
but of what? The creature resembled a gorilla of sorts, but with what
appeared to be spikes or small ivory like tusks protruding from its
body. But before you could examine it further, the cocking of an automatic
rifle from behind made you spin around.

     "I'm afraid your ten minutes is up, sir!"

     Before you could react, a rifle butt from another trooper standing
to your side came crashing down on the back of your head, and all went
black...

     You regained conciousness in what appeared to be a hospital room.
Your head throbbed, and it was no surprise to find a large lump on the
back of your cranium. After what seemed like hours, the door to your room
opened, and a familiar face appeared at the door. It was none other than
the UAC General Manager! Well, a visit from the top boy himself. Seems
your actions may have stirred up a bit of an ant's nest.

     "B.J., good to see you've come to. How are you feeling?" he asked.

     "I've felt better", came your cool reply. The General Manager
gave a wry smile and continued.

     "Mmmm, that was a nasty fall you had. Should be more careful going
down those stairs, you know, B.J."

     Nasty fall? You shot an angry glance at the General Manager. "I'd
hardly call a rifle butt blow to the back of my head a nasty fall" you
snapped.

     "Rifle butt blow? Now, now, B.J., I think your time in the military
must be catching up with you! You had a nasty fall, that's all. Must have
affected your memory, by the look of it. Falls like that can do that kind
of thing, you know!"

     You didn't like the condescending manner in which he spoke. You gave
him an icy stare. 
     "I stuck my nose in where it wasn't welcome, granted, but in my
position here at UAC, I should bloody well know what's going on here!
Judging by what's being "exported" out of this place and the quantity of
ammunition and first aid coming in, something big is going on, and seems
to be getting covered up for some reason."

     The General Manager shook his head in dismay.
     "I'm disappointed, B.J.! For one thing, there is no such freight
movement taking place at all. Your imagination again, I'm afraid. But, if
I were you, B.J., I wouldn't go talking to everyone about the tricks your
imagination has been playing on you. After all, your credibility is at
stake here."

     "Absolute crap!" you replied. "My credibility has nothing to do with
this! Come on, tell me. What is going on here? Really?!!!"

     The General Manager hung his head momentarily, then looked back at
you.
     "You'd better get better, B.J. - and you'd better be more careful,
too, my friend. After all, we can't have you being careless and falling
down any more steps, can we? Another nasty fall could kill you..."

     The message sank in. Shut up or be silenced. Well, you'd play their
game for now, but, you were determined not to let the matter rest.

     After a few days recuperating, you returned to work, knowing things
were not going to be quite the same. You were not surprised then, within
an hour of returning, you were summoned to attend the General Manager's
office.

     On entering the office, you found yourself confronted by not only
the General Manager, but the Personnel Manager and another UAC bigwig.
     "Take a seat, B.J." beckoned the General Manager. After a moment's
silence, he continued.
     "I'm not sure whether you know it or not, B.J., but there's been a
bit of a structural shake up within UAC. Unfortunately, your position
within the company has been made redundant, so I'm afraid that we will
no longer have need of your services."

     Somehow, this didn't surprise you one iota. Stuff it, let them play
their little games down in the Research Department, you couldn't be
bothered with the likes of these fools anymore. The General Manager
seemed surprised when you smiled and accepted the redundancy package
without offering any further comment. You even shook his hand before
departing!

     And so it was that you departed UAC for what you thought was the
last time. You looked forward to an early retirement from all this 
bullshit. Let's enjoy life for once!

[I warned you - this is a bloody long storyline! Yes, I know, I can
waffle on! And guess what? We're almost a half of the way there! WHAT??? 
I hear you say - only a bloody HALF of the way? ALMOST??? OK, I'm sorry. 
Bear with me, we're getting there - albeit slowly!]

     Three months passed. Then one day, while relaxing over a drink at
your favourite hotel, you felt a hand touch your shoulder. 
     "B.J. Blazkowicz!" a voice exclaimed. "I was told I'd find you
here!"

     Swinging around in your chair, you recognised a familiar face.
     "Why, I know your face!" you exclaimed. "UAC Research Department,
right?"

     The man smiled. 
     "Dead on! Or, well, at least I used to be part of the UAC Research
team, that is, until I resigned last week." His smile had died as he
finished the sentence. Before you could offer a reply, he continued in a
hushed tone.
     "So, I believe you saw a little too much for UAC's liking down in
the main stores area, eh? Let me tell you, what you saw was nothing, but
still your actions caused quite a bit of concern among the top boys!"

     "How do you know all of this?" you asked.
      
     "I worked in the Research Department, B.J., the centre of all the
strange activity that's been going on at UAC. There's not much we didn't
hear about."

     "Well, that's history now," you lamented. "Why'd you come looking
for me?"

     The man shot a cautious glance around the bar before answering.
     "Well, B.J., firstly, let me explain some things to you. Things
are getting pretty bad down at UAC, it won't be long before things get
totally out of control. That's the reason I resigned. I sincerely
believe my life is on the line just through coming here to talk to you.
If anyone at UAC finds out I'm talking to you about this, I'm a goner.
But, I have to take the risk."

     Your interest had been aroused.
     "What the hell are you on about?" you asked.

     "I'll tell it from the beginning," he replied, "then you'll know
exactly what's been going on." The man took a seat opposite you, and
drew in a deep breath of air before continuing.

     "It all started two years ago at UAC Plant 6. The Research team
there were working on a project involving some form of teleportation
technology. The military got wind of it, and were so keen on developing
the idea as quickly as possible that they poured millions into funding
the project. As far as the military were concerned, the benefits of such
technology were obvious. Imagine, teleporting squads of troops and
supplies in behind enemy lines. Infiltrating enemy headquarters. The
possibilities were endless. Anyway, with the unlimited budget allocated
to researching this teleportation business, the Research team at UAC6
decided to go full hog on the project. Within a year, they found 
themselves on the verge of a breakthrough. Then, through sheer chance,
they created something totally unexpected. Somehow, they had artificially
created some kind of a void, or a portal of sorts, inside the actual
Research Lab itself. Not knowing exactly what it was, they threw some
objects into the thing, only to see them swallowed up and seemingly
gone without a trace. A tracking device was thrown into the "portal" to
try to ascertain where the things were going, but as soon as the thing
disappeared, so too did the signal it transmitted. No one dared entering
the thing in person, as it was considered a possible lethal course of
action. That's when the military stepped in and used their political
muscle to provide a "volunteer". This "volunteer" was a military prisoner
sentenced to be executed the following day for murder. The offer they
made to him was, volunteer for the experiment, and, if he survived, his
sentence would be commuted to life imprisonment. With nothing to lose,
the prisoner had accepted the proposal willingly. And so the first human
entered this "portal". One hour or so after after he'd gone in, fears
grew that he'd been killed as soon as he had entered, as there had still
been no sign of him. But, then, all of a sudden, he had emerged from the
portal, totally unharmed. His only comments were that, compared to the
place he'd just been, prison would seem a much brighter place than he'd
ever known it to be!
     And so, after this, teams of UAC research personnel entered the
portal to see what lay beyond. What they found was a kind of "gothic
mirror" of our own world. Test after test revealed that, where ever this
place was, it was not really of this world though. It was as if the portal
was a gateway to another world altogether, or alternative dimension,
perhaps even another time plane. Whatever, exploration of the place
revealed a number of unusual artefacts. The skulls you're so familiar with
by now, are from this "new world". So too are those blue vials you may
have seen down in the main storage areas. They contain some kind of
unusual liquid that reportedly has healing properties. Anyway, orders from
the top boys required that we collect as many of these artefacts as
possible so they could be distributed to various top secret research
institutions for thorough examination and testing.
     Whilst all this had been going on, instructions had been issued to 
the other five UAC sites in this country to have their research 
departments attempt to duplicate the creation of this "portal". 
Fortunately, or on hindsight, maybe not so fortunately at all, the 
research team at UAC6 had documented all steps they had taken towards the
creation of the portal. Following these exact same procedures, and with
funding from the military, the research teams at the other five UAC sites
were able to achieve the exact same result as UAC6 - a portal to another
"dimension".
     At first it was assumed that each portal would be a doorway to the
exact same area as that found beyond the original portal at UAC6, but
this was not the case. The portals obviously seemed to lead to the same
"other worldly" dimension, but each portal opened a doorway to a
completely new area within this dimension. Anyway, once these portals
had been created, the orders from the UAC hierarchy was the same; explore
the new "dimension" as thoroughly as possible, and retrieve as many
artefacts as possible for research purposes."

     The man finally paused for a second to quaff a beer he'd bought
earlier. His incredible story had you engrossed, although you still
wondered what his motivation in telling you was. He continued.
     "Anyway, things went without incident for a short while, but then,
something happened over at UAC6, the location of the first portal. A
research team had been passing through a previously explored area of the
new dimension, when all of a sudden, they encountered a foreign life form.
Before they had a chance to react, the creature attacked with an evil
ferocity, killing three of the team and sending the others scurrying back
to the portal. A team of UAC troopers was sent into the portal to tackle
the creature. Apparently it put up quite a fight, killing one of the
troopers in the process, but a few well aimed shots brought the thing
down."

     You were fascinated. 
     "What did this creature look like?" you asked.

     "I believe you already know the answer to that question." the man
replied. You remembered the creature on ice down in the main stores area
at UAC1. 

     "Don't tell me," you said, "an ape like creature with ivory like
spikes protruding from its body."

     "That's the one," the man replied, "think yourself lucky the one you
saw was dead. I've only ever seen these things once when they were alive,
believe me, you want to have some heavy artillery on hand before taking 
those bastards on. But, back to what I was saying.
     After this initial incident at UAC6, encounters with these creatures
gradually became more and more commonplace. They started appearing in the
areas beyond the portals at the other five UAC sites, also. Some of us in
the Research Department had a theory that, the more we exploited the new
dimensions for artefacts and so forth, the more these creatures multiplied.
But, of course, that was only a theory, and the military weren't interested
in our theories. Before long, it was a standard practice to send a team of
heavily armed UAC troopers along with any research personnel entering the
new areas. And it was entirely due to the appearance of these hostile
creatures that UAC more than doubled the number of troopers at each UAC
site. Added security measures were also being taken, as UAC feared news of 
this business would somehow be leaked to the press."
                                       
     As you listened to the man's story, the pieces of the jigsaw all
began falling into place. The skulls, the sudden increase in UAC troop
numbers, the outgoing freight movement. But you were still somewhat
mystified by the dramatic influx of ammunition and first aid supplies
to the UAC sites. 

     "One thing puzzles me," you said. "Down in the main storage area, I
found mass quantities of ammunition and first aid crated up. I mean, I can
understand the need for extra ammunition and first aid supplies given the
appearance of these creatures, but, with the amount I saw down in the main
storage area, it was as if UAC were preparing for all out war!"

     A grim look came over the man's face. "They are, my friend, they are.
The UAC management are starting to get edgy, but now that the military are
in control of things, UAC are powerless to do anything about it. The
military just can't seem to realise the true seriousness of the situation.
You see, the problem over at UAC6 is more advanced than at the other UAC
sites, I suppose due to the fact that the portal there has been in
existence for longer than the others. What happens through the portal 
there seems to happen soon after with the portals at the other sites. It's
got to the stage where new hostile creatures are starting to appear. On
one of my brief visits to this other dimension at our own site, UAC1, I
encountered a spectre like creature, half invisible and very fast. Luckily
the troopers with me brought it down with one shot. I believe other more
dangerous creatures have been appearing beyond the other portals.
Basically, the situation, especially at UAC6, is getting totally out of
control. No longer do we encounter the odd creature or two in the other
dimensions, but hordes of them all over the place. They're multiplying.
And as I stated earlier, I believe it's all due to this continual removal
of those damned artefacts from this new dimension. It's like we've
violated their world, and now it's time to pay. And that, B.J., is why
UAC have huge stockpiles of ammunition and first aid - the new dimensions
have become a veritable battlefield!"

     "Well," you asked, "why don't UAC just stop removing artefacts from
these other dimensions? Leave sleeping dogs lie, if you like?"

     "But as I explained, B.J., our theories in why these problems are
worsening don't interest the military, and as UAC are now virtually under
military control, approaching the UAC hierarchy with our ideas won't make
any difference. The military head honchos just want to exploit the new
dimensions for all their worth. Hell, if some of the rumours I've heard
are true, and I have strong reason to believe they are, this whole world
of ours could be in dire trouble if the military get their way."

     "The whole world?!!" you laughed. "Look, I hardly see how these
creatures, as nasty as they may be, could pose a threat of that nature!"

     The man frowned at your response. "You don't, do you? Well, you may
just change your mind after you've heard out the rest of my story."

     "Alright, then," you replied. "I'm listening."

     The man paused before continuing, checking no doubt to see he had
your complete attention before doing so.
     "What I've told you so far is only the beginning. A couple of months
ago, just before the military took effective control of UAC, the UAC
management, concerned over the attacks being made on our people by these
vile creatures, decided to close off the portals due to the danger
associated with the new dimension. Listen to this - the portals COULDN'T
be closed! This was contrary to all research department predictions; 
somehow, something was preventing their closure. More accurately, our
research on the problem indicated something on the other side of the 
portals was keeping them open. Question was, what? The UAC management
decided to act quickly. At each of the 6 UAC sites, a crack squad of UAC
troopers was prepared, and then sent into the portals with orders to 
penetrate the new dimensions as far as possible in an effort to determine
where and what the problem was preventing the closure of the portals. Some 
of these troops were armed with rapid fire assault weapons, even chainguns, 
such was the firepower deemed necessary to combat these creatures. A few 
troopers were left near the portal entrances in the new dimension areas 
to maintain communications with the main groups, as communications could 
not be maintained from the UAC side of the portals. Results and reports
varied at each location, but I'll cite some examples for you.
     At UAC6, the main squad of troopers made excellent progress, with
only few casualties, and penetrated several levels into the new dimension
before encountering a level that seemed to lead no further, a "dead end",
or so it seemed. However, they hadn't explored the central area of this
level. Last communication received from them was that they were moving in
towards the central hub of this level. No more was heard after that. A
backup squad of troopers was sent in to investigate; they found only one
bloodied survivor trying to make his way back to the portal entrance.
Apparently his only words were; "don't go on - danger - invisible!" He was
led back to the UAC side of the portal by two other troopers, but died
soon after. As for the rest of the backup squad, they didn't heed his
advice, and went on to investigate. They were never seen again. Something
had to have stopped them, B.J., something extremely powerful. And it is
this "something" that we believe must be eliminated in order to effect the
closure of the portal at UAC6.
     The squads at UAC2, 4 and 5 reported similar findings to those 
reported by the squad at UAC6 - but were lucky to have some survivors to
give a more accurate account of what the problem regarding portal closure
could be. The common denominator between these four UAC sites was that the 
final levels within these new dimensions have no apparent exit, and that
these levels are being controlled by some "supreme" creature of immense 
strength. Our research indicates that these "supreme" creatures have an
"energy signature" that is somehow linked to the portals, preventing us
from closing them. It's as if these ungodly beasts are the "rulers" of
these new dimension areas, and somehow have a degree of control over the
portal leading to and from their particular dimensional area. I firmly
believe that, if these creatures can be destroyed, then the portals will
close down automatically."

     "You stated that the "assault" squads sent in reported similar
findings at UAC sites 2, 4, 5 and 6. What about those at our own site here,
UAC1, and those at UAC3?" you asked.

     "Yes, well, they're a different kettle of fish altogether, or so it
seems at the moment. The "assault" squads, as you call them, reported
different findings in the "final" levels they'd penetrated. At UAC1, the
troopers transmitted a message that they had located what appeared to be
an "exit" portal, or void, in the final level. Although they could see it,
they couldn't access the area it was in, and it soon became obvious that
to do so, they were going to have to find a key to open a particular door
they believed sealed off the area leading to this portal. We don't know if
they were able to find such a key or not - they were never heard from 
again.
     As for the situation at UAC3, well, that's a bit of a mystery. The
squad that penetrated the final level were elated when they reported
killing some huge creatures they'd encountered in this level. One of these
creatures possessed a key that apparently opened a previously inaccessable 
area. The troopers reported finding another key in this area, and the last
transmission received from them indicated they were heading towards an
"exit" from the level. We believe this "exit" may lead to another "portal",
like that reported in the new dimension at UAC1. The research teams have
a theory that, if someone were to pass through one of these "exit" portals,
it would return that person back to the UAC side of the original portal,
and both portals would then destabilize and close."

     "Well, if that's the case," you queried, "why didn't the portal at
UAC1 close when the assault squad passed through the "exit" portal? I mean,
they DID find an exit portal, didn't they?"

     A distressed look fell upon the man's face.
     "No, unfortunately, tragedy struck before they could make it to the
assumed exit point. Their last transmission ended with the sound of muffled
screams and gunshots. Something stopped them. We don't know what."

     The man paused momentarily, and muttered to himself "little wonder
the new dimensions have been given a new collective nickname..."

     "What's that?" you enquired.

     The man looked you squarely in the face, and replied, "the Doom
Dimension, my friend, the Doom Dimension. For the research teams at all UAC
sites believe these new dimensions could, ultimately, spell the doom of all
mankind, unless, of course, something is done to close these portals
immediately."

     "There you go again," you remarked. "End of the world stuff. I don't
get it. If the military have now taken control of UAC, why don't they send
in a whole bloody army of crack troops to solve things?"

     "As I said earlier, the military have their own ideas. Let me explain.
Once the military learned of UAC's failed attempts to close off the portals
by sending in troopers, they went apeshit. Apparently they were furious
that the UAC management had even considered closing the portals! That's 
when they moved in to take over all UAC operations relating to the portals, 
citing that the portals were vital to "national security"! Of course, the
boys in the Research department didn't buy that! A bit of risky prying was
done, and we believe we know the REAL reason for the military's interest
in keeping these portals open."

     "Why doesn't anything relating to the military head honchos surprise
me?" you asked, with a wry grin on your face. "So tell me, what is their
motive?"

     "Listen to this. The military have plans to send in their own squads
of troopers, not to eliminate these ungodly creatures, but to capture as
many as possible. Capture ALIVE, that is! The only thing stopping them 
from attempting this right away is that they're still in the process of
building a fortified holding place in which to keep these creatures. From
what I have heard, I believe such a place is not far from completion. And 
do you know what the fools plan to use these creatures for? They plan to 
use them in warfare, unleashing hordes of the beasts into enemy locations 
as a kind of "terror" weapon. Bloody military, they have no idea what 
they're dabbling with here!"

     "Why don't you go to the press with all of this?" you asked, "make it
public!" you added.

     "Are you kidding?!!" the man exclaimed. "One of my colleagues in the
Research department did just that, and UAC, acting strictly under orders
from the military, just dismissed my colleagues allegations as the ravings
of a lunatic. Needless to say, the press bought it, and my poor friend has
never been seen or heard from again. I fear the worst for him, B.J."

     "I can understand your concern," you said, "but, surely, there must be
some other way of tackling this whole situation, don't you agree?"

     "I'm afraid there isn't time to think of alternative ways to handle
this, B.J., for there's been a frightening new development over at UAC6 in
the past two weeks. Up to that point, no creatures from the "Doom Dimension"
had ever crossed through the portals to our own world. As such, the UAC side
of the portals were considered a "safe haven". But all that changed when,
on Monday last week, as I recall, UAC6 reported creatures coming through
the portal into the UAC site. I know the same will soon happen at UAC1, and
indeed the other UAC complexes, as generally, what happens at UAC6 happens 
soon after at the other UAC sites. That's why I resigned, B.J., I just 
didn't want to be around when these things started pouring through."

     "What was the military's reaction to this turn of events?" you asked.

     "A patchwork solution, I'm afraid. All they've done is quadruple the
number of troopers at the site. In fact, I believe the troopers are in
reality members of the military's own forces, but disguised as UAC troopers
so as not to arouse suspicion from the public."

     You sighed. "Look," you said, "I know that the military are up to no
good with all of this, but, I still fail to see how all of this is of any
real threat to the entire world! I mean, the military have more than enough
hardware to destroy anything that comes through these portals!"

     The man gave you a slightly puzzled look. "You almost sound like the
military, B.J.!"

     "Don't forget, I was with the military up to the time I joined UAC!"
you laughed.

     "Well, consider this. What I'm about to tell you would be denied
totally by the military hierarchy; they don't want to know about this
latest development - they're too obssessed with their plans to capture and
use these creatures in future warfare. Some new hostile entities have been
encountered within the "Doom Dimensions" recently. It's almost as if the
creatures controlling these dimensions are starting to recognise that the
human intruders to their world are more of a match than what they had 
initially expected, and are starting to evolve new creatures capable of
withstanding the type of physical attack we rely upon to bring down an
enemy. These new entities vary - some rumours I've heard speak of them as
looking like something from your worst nightmare. Others rumours I've heard 
indicate some of them are totally invisible. Whatever the case, all reports
regarding these new entities have one common thread; these new "beings"
CANNOT BE HARMED! Well, at least, not through any known methods of attack,
anyway. In addition, these "entities" have only to touch you to kill you, 
unlike with the other creatures encountered in the "Doom Dimension", who
seem to rely on a more conventional style of attack.
     Thankfully, reports of these things have been extremely rare to date,
with one exception. Last week, just prior to my resignation, a colleague of 
mine from the Research department over at UAC6 was telling me that 
encounters with these things in their own "Doom Dimension" were starting to 
become a little too common for comfort. He told me of a team of crack 
military supplied troopers that had been caught completely by surprise when 
some form of invisible "entity" had attacked, decimating their ranks in a 
matter of seconds. Every possible attempt to defeat this thing was made, but
it soon became evident that nothing was going to work. The fact that this 
thing was virtually invisible certainly didn't help, but, the troopers were 
able to make out its presence through a light diffusion pattern created on 
the floor just below it. This at least gave them the advantage of being able
to identify the thing's location, although only just before the thing was
upon them. But it helped them to isolate its position within the "Doom
Dimension", and a movable section of wall in the vicinity was pushed by the
troopers to trap the thing in an enclosed area. But there's no telling how 
long this thing will stay trapped.
     And that's what concerns me about these portals being left open. It's
only a matter of time before one of these invincible entities makes its
way through to a portal and into our world. And once that happens, B.J.,
what will we do then? How does the human race deal with an extremely hostile
entity that can't be stopped? As you can imagine, things may soon start to 
get way out of control to the point where even the military can't help us. 
We could find ourselves with not just one, but several, perhaps hundreds or
even more of these things let loose upon our world. We can't afford to sit 
back and wait until that happens."
     
     "I understand the gravity of the situation, now that you've explained
it to me in depth," you responded. Somehow, you knew what was coming next.
Was it really that predictable?

     "Well," he continued, "only myself, my Research department colleagues,
and now you, understand the true seriousness of the situation. Something has
to be done immediately in order to close off these portals. Neither myself
or my colleagues are capable of the type of feat required to pull something
like this off. But, you, B.J., you may just be our last hope. What with
your background, I firmly believe you could be the only one capable of
helping us."

     Yep. You knew he was going to pop the big question. You mulled over
the idea for a few seconds before responding.
     "Why me?" you asked. "Surely there has to be someone other than me
who'd be more capable of helping you?"

     "But you, B.J., are the only one who would believe the story I have
just told you today. You've seen enough to get yourself a nasty hit on the
head down in the main storage area. I figured that, after seeing what you
had seen, you'd be more receptive to my story than anyone else I may have
approached. Not only that, but your "stick it to 'em" attitude with the
UAC hierarchy back then earned you quite a bit of respect down in the
Research department. You're not the type to tow the line merely because
the hierarchy tell you to. I think you can make the right decisions
irrespective of what others try to make you believe, and, I hope you make
the right decision here, and quickly, as time is a critical factor..."

     You weren't going to accept his proposal immediately. You were a hero,
of that there was no doubt, but even heroes had to know exactly what it was
they were getting themselves in for! (who ever said B.J. was modest?!!)

     "OK," you asked, "what is it exactly you're hoping I can achieve?"

     "It's a big ask, I realise, B.J., but, as I said, I don't know who else
I can turn to. We need you to infiltrate each of the six UAC sites around 
the country, enter the "Doom Dimensions" via the portals at each site, and
work your way through to the final areas within each "Doom Dimension". Your
objective then would be to either eliminate the "supreme" creature that
seems to rule over that dimension, or, find an "exit" portal as described
earlier, and pass through it to the other side. Of course, each time one of
these objectives is successfully carried out, it would result in the portal
from that particular UAC site closing once and for all. Don't ask me how
I know this will happen, just accept that a lot of work has been done by
the research teams at all sites to figure this out. If the military knew
we'd been working on this stuff behind their backs, all hell would have
broken loose..."

     "OK, what happens to the poor bum who's "lucky" enough to destroy one
of these "supreme" creatures, as you call them? I suppose they get lost
within this "Doom Dimension" for all eternity, eh?"
     
     "No, no!" exclaimed the man. "Our research has been thorough. Not just
the portal, but, the whole "Doom Dimension" that that particular portal
leads to, would collapse, and in effect, cease to exist. All creatures or
items belonging to that dimensional area, other than those that have come 
through the portal into our world, would cease to exist also. But any 
living thing from our world currently in that dimensional area would 
rematerialise back in our world, at or near the location of where the portal 
had existed within the UAC Research department.
     As for those "Doom Dimensions" with an "exit" portal located somewhere
within their final level, we have very strong reason to believe that, by 
passing through one of these portals, you would be teleported back to the
location of the entry portal within the research area. Both portals, and
their associated "Doom Dimension", would then cease to exist. As I stated 
earlier, we believe only the dimensions accessable from UAC1 and UAC3 fit 
this category.
     But, I have to be honest. As certain as we are that this is how things 
would work, I cannot guarantee your safety. The process by which you would
be "rematerialised" back in our world is an unknown one. Hopefully, it 
should not be a harmful process, but, I suppose risks are a big part of
this mission."

     "Alright, then,"  you said. "Suppose I do agree to your proposal. 
How do I get into the UAC sites? I don't have security clearance anymore, 
you know!"

     "Unfortunately, I can't help you with any site other than UAC1. Just
before leaving UAC1 for the last time, I managed to steal a security key
for the main entrance. After departing through the main entrance, I was
unnerved to notice a UAC trooper following me. Fearing he was suspicious,
and knowing what could happen if I was caught with the key, I panicked, and
threw the thing into a small clump of bushes. Unfortunately, it was a
needless action, as the trooper just walked on past me without so much as
even saying hello. I haven't been game enough to go back and retrieve the
key, but, hopefully, it should still be there among the shrubs outside the
main entrance to UAC1. Find that key, and you'd be able to access the main
entrance.
     As for the other five UAC sites, well, I'm afraid you'd have to find
your own way in. I'm sure you'd be able to find an out of the way entrance
to these places, or perhaps just climb a fence somewhere! I trust your
resourcefulness would see you through, B.J.!"

     "Fine. Tell me, what could I expect once I got in?" you asked.

     "I'll be honest - trouble! Heaps of it. All UAC troopers are acting 
under strict orders from the military to shoot any intruders found on site 
without hesitation  - no pussyfooting around, just shoot to KILL. As for the
"Doom Dimension", well, its layout is on a par with the UAC side of things.
You'll find doors and computerized access panels installed all through the
"Doom Dimension" to control access to the various areas. You'll need to find
keys to access certain areas, just as you would in the actual UAC sites. As
I stated earlier, it's almost a "mirror" of our own world, but with a "gothic"
theme. Trouble is, the security systems in the "Doom Dimensions" don't stop
the creatures!
     There is one more thing you must understand, B.J. The military want to
keep the portals open for their own insane reasons, but they don't want hard
evidence of this leaking out to the press. An intruder, if not dealt with
immediately, could provide the press with such evidence. Unfortunately,
B.J., you would be viewed as an intruder if found on the UAC sites. It would
be best to make an attempt on a Sunday, as the sites would be at their
quietest - no innocent UAC office workers to get in your way. Once on site,
you'd have to make your way through the UAC complex directly towards its
Research Department - these areas are where you'll find the portals that
will take you through to the "Doom Dimension". Of course, you'd have to make
it a priority to find some heavy artillery before entering a portal. The UAC
troopers will do anything to stop you, B.J., you'd have no choice but to
shoot them, or be shot yourself. I wouldn't feel bad about having to do
this, though, B.J., as most of the decent UAC troopers you may have known
from the early days of UAC have either resigned or been killed inside the
"Doom Dimension". The ones that patrol the UAC sites now are mostly thugs
supplied by the military; hard headed cowboy types that the military feel
are keen to take on the creatures within the "Doom Dimension", while at the
same time following any types of orders without question."

     You nodded your head knowingly. "Yep! I think I know the type. Good
SS material! I had one of those idiots almost bash my brains out when I
was caught snooping down in the main storage area. They could've just
escorted me upstairs to see a higher UAC authority regarding my actions,
but, no; bash the poor bastard over the head instead! Somehow, I don't think
I'd feel any remorse in taking those bastards on if they tried to kill me!
     Tell me though. Why couldn't I just do what the military fear the most?
In other words, go in to steal hard evidence and take it to the press. It
would certainly save me from having to take on the "Doom Dimension."

     "Two reasons, B.J. - firstly, you'd have to be extremely lucky to find
enough evidence to present a solid, believable case to the press. Even if 
you did, the military would probably manage a cover up job like they did on
my friend. Secondly, as I have already said, time is a crucial factor here.
Going through the press etc etc would probably get positive results in the
longrun, but by then, it would no doubt be too late! We have to act NOW,
B.J.! So tell me. Will you do it? Will you help us close these portals for
good?"

     What the hell, you thought. Retirement was proving to be a bore, and
the stories your father had related to you as a boy had always inspired you
to some day do the same. B.J. Blazkowicz Senior had single handedly given the
denizens of Wolfenstein a licking, so why shouldn't B.J. Blazkowicz Junior
find the denizens of Doom any different?
     "Tell you what," you said, "buy me a beer, and you've got a deal!"

     The man was elated. In his eyes, you had just become something of a
saviour. A few more final details were discussed, and your newly acquired
"friend" gave you some documentation relating to the earlier incursions by
UAC troopers into the "Doom Dimensions". These you would read later in an
effort to better prepare yourself for what lay ahead.

     Finally, the time came to bid farewell. As the man shook your hand, and
wished you good luck, one question popped into your mind.
     "Tell me," you asked, "if I should succeed in closing down all these 
portals, what's to guarantee that UAC won't go fiddling with this telepor-
tation stuff again in the future?"

     "Don't worry," the man reassured you. "I think UAC have learnt their
lesson. Teleportation technology is obviously in its infancy, and after our
experience with this "Doom Dimension", I think any further experimentation
with teleportation would have to be carried out in a place where Earth could
not be threatened. In fact, UAC have plans to set up a radioactive waste
operation on Mars some time in the near future. Maybe that would be the
ideal location to continue the research on teleportation. Better still, they
could use Mars' remote moons Phobos or Deimos to set up a teleportation
research centre. If you succeed in your mission, I may try to get my old job
back at UAC, and I'll suggest this idea to them. One thing is certain, they
would never be so careless as to allow something like this "Doom Dimension"
to occur again!"

     And pigs might fly, you thought!

     And so it is that you find yourself standing outside the main entrance
to UAC1 on this cold and miserable Sunday morning. You ponder what lays
ahead once you go through that front door. There were many areas you would
have to pass through to accomplish the first stage of your mission; office
blocks, freight containment and storage areas, the Research Department, and,
finally, the "Doom Dimension" itself!

     Armed with only a pistol and your bare hands, you wonder if you can 
accomplish this mammoth task. You'd never faced anything like the creatures 
your friend had described. But wait! Didn't you spend hours in your office 
at UAC1 playing a computer game called "Doom" when you should have been 
doing more important things? And you skipped through the levels! (Although 
with just a little difficulty on the "Nightmare" level...) Yes! You were 
ready after all! Time to save UAC and possibly the world! Time for the son
of the hero of Wolfenstein to take on the denizens of Doom! With the
adrenalin pumping, you head off to find the security key your friend had
"deposited" among the bushes. Look out, Doom, here comes B.J.!!!

     Whew! So there! Now you have your background story! You could have done
the same in just a few paragraphs? Well, maybe some reading will do you some
good for a change, instead of playing computer games all the time!

     Have fun :)
     AReyeP
     (Steve Walley, Melbourne, Australia)
     Email: areyep@iaa.com.au
