PLAYING WOLFENDOOM
==================

     Playing "Wolfendoom" should be much the same as playing Wolfenstein,
after all, "Wolfendoom" IS Wolfenstein, except with new graphics, levels
and sounds. These changes do make a difference, though, so the following is
provided for info.

     As with the original Wolfenstein, I highly recommend that you play each
episode in order, as some of the later episodes contain tougher levels, as
well as the odd surprise or two! Each episode represents one of the six UAC
sites referred to in the storyline. The first episode represents your former
workplace, UAC1. Episode two represents the second UAC site (UAC2) and so
on, with Episode six of course representing the final UAC site, UAC6.

     Basically, each of the six episodes is divided into two distinctive
areas: UAC factory, stores and office complexes, and the "Doom Dimension"
areas. The first level or levels of each episode consist of the UAC areas,
your aim being to find the "portal" in the Research Department, which will
take you through to the "Doom Dimension". Once there, you'll have to proceed
onwards to the final level (level 9) to face the final challenge.

     Of course, you could use a mapeditor and graphics editor to view 
everything before playing, but, that WOULD ruin the surprise element, and
take away some of the challenge, wouldn't it? My challenge to you is to
complete each episode without cheating! It is easier to do than you may
think! If you do find it hard, play on the easier skill levels.

     KEYS:
     On most levels, you will be required to find a gold and/or blue access
key to proceed beyond certain locked doors. All plain doors are unlocked;
those with the brown UAC symbol on them are LOCKED. Some levels have locked
doors that CANNOT be opened by yourself, even with both keys in your 
possession. This is NOT a fault, it is deliberate. They are there for a
reason, or for appearance only. You are not supposed to go through them. If,
by chance, an enemy opens one for you, and you go through, be aware you may
find yourself stuck on the other side. In the few situations this may
happen, I've put secret pushwalls in so you can "push" your way out. But,
rest assured, odds are EXTREMELY SLIM that you'll find yourself in such a
predicament anyway. Most of these doors are there for appearance only, and
have nothing on the other side at all. The others - well, you'll find out!

     As a general rule, keys required to open doors are NOT hidden (keeping
in tradition with the original Wolfenstein). Nothing is more annoying than
gameplay being slowed down to a virtual halt because a key is hidden in some
ridiculously difficult to find location. There are some exceptions to this
rule in "Wolfendoom", but not too many. In these few cases, a "spare" key
may be hidden somewhere, eliminating the need to kill a "boss" to obtain a
key. Or, a necessary key may be visible to the player, but can only be
accessed through pushing secret pushwalls somewhere.

     COMPLETING A LEVEL:
     Somewhere on each level is a computerized panel which will either open
a door to the next level, or operate an elevator taking you to the next
level. Yep, same as Wolf, stand in front of the panel, and press the space
bar to proceed onwards.

     PORTALS: 
     These are the things you'll have to enter in order to cross into the
"Doom Dimension". You'll know one when you see one. They have big signs on
either side warning you not to enter!

     WEAPONS AND FIRST AID:
     Just as in Wolfenstein, you'll have to search for a lot of the ammo and
first aid you'll need to survive (unless you're a wimp and use the MLI keys
or god mode all the time!). In other words, you'll have to search for secret
pushwalls that may conceal necessary goodies. UAC troopers have hidden heaps
of ammo and first aid in all the UAC sites and the "Doom Dimensions", so
that there is always a supply nearby in the event of emergency. Trouble is,
you don't have their maps showing where they stashed it all.

     Depending on the skill level you're playing, each level should contain 
ample ammo\first aid to get you through without cheating. Don't worry, it's 
not all hidden! Personally, I tend to think I've overdone it a bit with the 
amount of first aid lying around the place. So, there's no excuse for you to
cheat, is there? If you get killed, I guess you're just not good enough!

     Remember in Wolf how, if a level was going to be a tough one, you'd
nearly always find a chaingun and accessories hidden not too far from the
start of the level? Well, the same applies to "Wolfendoom". Each level has
been designed to allow for the fact that you may be starting off with no
more than a pistol and eight rounds of ammo. You'll find that most levels
have a chaingun hidden somewhere - the easier levels may have one hidden in
a more remote location, though. Use your ammo wisely, and you should be 
laughing!

     Here's a run down of the "new" first aid and weapons items:
                                           
     First Aid:  
     =========
                 Blue vial        - These things boosted your health in Doom
                                    by a meagre 1%, but in "Wolfendoom", 
                                    they're even better, restoring 4%!
                 Stimpak          - restores 10% health.
                 Medikit          - restores 25% health 
                 Blue Life Sphere - equivalent of 1 up in original Wolf.

     Oh yeah! The good ol' blood drinking you may have done in Wolf still
applies. Even puddles of water can help in this way in "Wolfendoom", ie: if 
your health falls below 10%, running over a pool of blood or water will 
refresh you marginally.

     Weapons:    
     =======
     Nope, sorry, no big juicy BFG9000's in "Wolfendoom", or rocket launchers
for that matter! Though I have seen add ons with a rocket launcher, I've kept the

weapons in "Wolfendoom" much the same as in Wolfenstein.

                 Your fist  - equivalent to the knife in original Wolf. 
                              Sorry, but restrictions in image size gave a 
                              smaller image than I'd have liked.
                 Pistol     - same as in Wolf. Looks a little big, but I 
                              wanted to retain graphical detail where 
                              possible.
                 PCU        - "What the hell is this?" I hear you ask! Well,
                              what could I change the machine gun from Wolf
                              into? Shotguns aren't rapid fire, chainsaws 
                              aren't long range, plasma rifles fire streams
                              of visible blue plasma into the distance, etc
                              etc. None seemed suitable replacements for the
                              ol' machine gun from Wolfenstein. So, forgive
                              me, I adlibbed! Don't fret, I've tried to give
                              it a "Doomish" look! PCU is short for "Plasma
                              Conversion Unit" - my explanation for this is
                              that UAC were developing a very crude plasma
                              rifle to combat the creatures from the "Doom 
                              Dimension". This weapon takes standard type
                              ammunition, but converts each shot fired into 
                              a quick burst of plasma energy! Primitive 
                              compared to the plasma rifle in Doom, but, 
                              then, this is supposed to be a prototype, OK?!
                              As such, I made it look completely different
                              to any other weapon you've encountered. 
                              (Making it look like a plasma rifle would only 
                              cause disappointment, as, when using it, you 
                              wouldn't see any streams of blue plasma 
                              shooting off into the distance).
                              If you don't like it, stiff!
                 Chaingun   - Same type of thing as original Wolf.

     TREASURES:
     Well, there was no treasure to collect in Doom, only artefacts.
And, no artefacts to collect in Wolfenstein, only treasures. So, some of the 
artefacts from Doom have been made into the treasures of "Wolfendoom"! If 
you've read the complete storyline through (story.txt file, not the "shortened"
storyline you see in the "Read This" option from the in-game menu), you'd know
the bit about those mysterious skulls appearing around the place. Of course,
these skulls act as keys in Doom, but, in "Wolfendoom", these skulls are
valuable Doom collectables! And, those helmets that gave you a small armour
boost are now only capable of giving you a small point score boost.

     Treasures are as follows:
                    Helmet     - 100 points
                    Blue skull - 500 points
                    Red skull  - 1000 points
                    Gold skull - 5000 points

     SECRET AREAS:
     Just as in Wolfenstein, you will have to search for "pushwalls" that
lead to secret areas. If you find yourself running low on health or ammo,
these areas may be your final hope. Sometimes you won't need to search for
them at all, unless you are curious, or wish to find some goodies (and maybe
a few "baddies" as well...). Most levels have quite a few secret areas;
please note that as such you may find it difficult to obtain a 100% secret
ratio at the end of each level.

     ENEMIES:
     Of course, you can't expect to find all the enemies you'd find in Doom
or Doom II. And those that you do find will behave somewhat differently to
how they did in Doom. This IS Wolfenstein, after all! Some enemies, in fact,
wouldn't even be found in Doom at all, but, I put them in to give an element
of surprise. (Besides, it helps make "Wolfendoom" a little more like a new
game rather than just an all out attempt to try and copy Doom using an
inferior product). Don't worry, I've tried to give any new enemies a "Doom"
flavour!

     Here's a run down as to what you may or may not expect to find in
"Wolfendoom":

     UAC Troopers        - Remember what your human opponents look like when
                           you play multiplayer Doom over a network or via a
                           modem? Well, in "Wolfendoom", these guys are the
                           UAC troopers. You'll find them guarding all the
                           UAC sites. Be warned, they won't yell a warning!
                           All you'll hear before they attack is the cocking
                           of their rifles! By the way, the rifles they
                           carry are no ordinary rifles. The UAC research
                           team were working on a new weapon to combat the
                           creatures from the Doom dimension. You'll know
                           the difference when you hear them shoot at you!
     Former humans       - Nope, they looked too shitty when reduced down to
                           the size required for Wolfenstein.
     Imps                - Plenty of 'em!
     Lost Souls          - There's a few of these "flying" around.
     Cacodemons          - Wouldn't be "Doomish" without them!
     Demon Sergeants     - Sorry, I left these guys out in favour of their
                           cousins, the spectres (below).
     Spectres            - Those half invisible demon sergeants. Quite a few
                           of these here and there.
     Mancubus            - Those fat boys from Doom II. They might not shoot
                           fireballs in "Wolfendoom", but they still pack a
                           mean punch!
     Heavy Weapon Dude   - Those chaingun wielding mongrels from Doom II. I
                           remember putting a few of these around.
     Baron of Hell       - You'll find him in "The Baron's Realm"...
     Archvile            - C'mon, how could I put one of these in? Even if I
                           did, it wouldn't bring things back to life. And
                           what would I have it do? Shoot fireballs?
     Pain Elemental      - As for the Archvile. What would I have it do?
                           Shoot fireballs instead of Lost Souls?
     Revenant            - Sorry, I left these out. Didn't look too crash
                           hot when reduced down to the required size.
     Cyberdemon          - Sorry, but reducing this down to the size
                           required for Wolfenstein resulted in too much
                           loss of graphic detail. I felt it was better to
                           have no cyberdemon at all instead of having a
                           shitty looking one.
     Spider Demon        - Same as for the cyberdemon.
     Arachnotron         - Hmmm, you won't find one of these. Well, at least
                           not in the normal sense, anyway...
     Surprise nasty      - You'll know what I mean when something unusual
                           starts attacking you! This'll stop you from being
                           too cocky in the future!!! But don't worry too
                           much - these things are really just full of shit!
                           (You'll know what I mean when you kill one!)
     Invincible nasties  - Remember those pacman ghosts from the Episode 3
                           secret level in Wolfenstein? Well, I won't say
                           what they are now! With the exception of UAC6,
                           you'll probably only find these things in a few
                           of the secret levels, as they cannot be killed,
                           and prevent the player from achieving a 100% kill
                           ratio at the end of a normal level. Expect these
                           things, where ever they are now, to come out of
                           nowhere!

     SKILL LEVELS:
     Like the original Wolfenstein, "Wolfendoom" should be reasonably easy
for those playing on skill levels "Grandma" and "Timid". "Confident" is the
normal standard difficulty level, but I've made "I'm Soooo Good" a pretty
tough challenge for those who like a bit of mayhem. Not that all you Doomheads
will find it difficult! (Typical doomhead: "C'mon, that was EEEEZZIIEE!!")
     
     My challenge to you is; play through each episode without cheating!
I've done it on "Im Soooo Good", but then, I know the layout of each
level, don't I? 

     SOUNDS: (This applies to soundblaster users)
     Most enemies make similar sounds to what they would in Doom. But, due
to some restrictions I had in changing some of the sounds, a few creatures
may sound different. Some sounds (such as the sound of the enemy shooting at
you) are intentional, mainly because I liked the effect it had. Anyway, just 
remember, when you hear a particular growl, it might not be what you expect
it to be!

     Thanks id for such a classic game :)
     AReyeP
     (Steve Walley, Melbourne, Australia)
     Email: areyep (at) iaa.com.au

