EPISODE 1 - UAC Site 1: The First Encounter
     UAC1 is of course your former UAC workplace. You'll have to find the
key your newly acquired friend threw into the bushes outside near the main
entrance, and then enter the site and find the portal that will take you
through to your first encounter with the denizens of `Wolfendoom'.

     Objective: Find and enter the `exit' portal from the final level. This
should transport you back to the UAC site and close off the portal from UAC1
for good!

     By the way, the secret level in Episode 1 has huge secret areas that
have absolutely nothing to do with Doom or Wolfenstein whatsoever. Please
forgive me, after all, I am an Essendon supporter! (Should `Wolfendoom' ever
somehow make its way outside of Australia, I'll explain: I'm referring to
Australian rules football, one of the most exciting codes of football
anywhere in the world! If you haven't heard of it, check it out!)

     Episode 1 level 1:  UAC1 Offices
                         Ahh, it's a Sunday, looks like all the office
                         workers are at home. I wonder if they've got Doom
                         installed on any of those computers? No time to 
                         find out though, too many UAC troopers!
               level 2:  UAC1 Freight Storage
                         So this is where you got hit on the back of the
                         head whilst poking around in the main stores area.
                         Be more careful this time!
               level 3:  UAC1 Portal 1
                         Ahah! The Research Department! Time to find the
                         portal within, and enter the `Doom' dimension!
               level 4:  Back Alleyways
                         Be careful here. Just when you think you've cleared
                         the area, along comes another nasty!
               level 5:  Nasty Finish!
                         Well, actually, the start of this level's not too
                         nice, either. But, the finish, well, make sure 
                         you've found that chaingun!
               level 6:  Four Quarters
                         A simple enough level, divided into four distinct
                         portions. If you find this difficult, you're a real
                         loser!
               level 7:  Cacodemon Fun
                         Self explanatory. You'll have to survive a bit of a
                         gauntlet before playing with the Cacos, though! In
                         fact, I could have called this level "crossfire",
                         but decided to save that title for another level.
               level 8:  Halls Of Hate
                         Couldn't think of what else to call this one! Just
                         seems that wherever you go, there's something out
                         to kill you.
               level 9:  The Exit Portal
                         You can see it in the distance behind those marble
                         columns, but getting to it won't be so simple.
               level 10: Is Don, Is Good!
                         This is for all those bloody Carlton supporters out
                         there! I hope these Bombers kick your ass!





     EPISODE 2 - UAC Site 2: The Baron's Realm
     Luckily, you've managed to find an out of the way entrance into the
site at UAC2. This is where you start off from in Episode 2.

     Previous incursions into the `Doom' dimension from UAC2 by UAC troopers
met with disaster upon reaching the final level, which is guarded by a
formidable foe. Welcome to the Baron's Realm!

     Objective: Kill the nasty in level 9, what else?

     Episode 2 level 1:  UAC2 Stores
                         Let's just say that on this level, you'll get away
                         with a little noise. But keep firing that weapon
                         and you'll start attracting a LOT of attention!
               level 2:  UAC2 Stores\Administration
                         Don't disturb those troopers near the start! Just
                         creep quietly around behind them and search for
                         some goodies before making a sound!
               level 3:  UAC2 Administration
                         Oh well, just another day at the office. For a
                         mercenary, that is.
               level 4:  UAC2 Portal 2
                         I've heard that some poor souls have gotten lost in
                         this portal. Maybe you can help them find their way
                         out...
               level 5:  Secrets Await!
                         Some nice goodies hidden in some large secret
                         areas. But you'll have to fight for them!
               level 6:  Ssssh - or die!
                         Making a racket at the start of this level could
                         draw attention...
               level 7:  Old Drainways
                         Old, derelict, slimy drainways. The only things
                         that could possibly inhabit these are some poor
                         lost souls.
               level 8:  The Passage
                         This level can be a real bastard! Can you survive
                         the Passage?!!!
               level 9:  Baron's Realm
                         You've been invited to dine with the Baron. You're
                         the main course! (Yeh, OK, it's a corny
                         description!)
               level 10: UAC2 Secret stores
                         Ahah! A secret UAC storage area! And, some nice
                         secret areas, too...





     EPISODE 3 - UAC Site 3: Deathtraps
     You managed to find an old laneway that leads to an area outside the
Main Stores at UAC3. You start this episode looking out across a large open
area towards the Main Storage building.

     Like the `Doom' dimension of UAC1, the final level of this `Doom'
dimension has an `exit' portal somewhere. The team of UAC troopers that
penetrated this final level had communicated that they'd killed a huge 
beast, yielding a key that enabled them to access yet another area which 
housed a second key; the key to the `exit' portal area. As they made their 
way towards this `exit' portal area, they had radioed, prematurely as it 
turned out, success in their mission. They were never seen, or heard from,
again. Something, somehow, had stopped them.

     Objective: Make your way to the final level within the `Doom'
dimension, but beware of some nasty traps along the way! Once at the final
level, find and enter the `exit' portal, but take extreme caution. You don't
want the same fate as fell upon the UAC troopers to fall upon you!

     Episode 3 level 1:  UAC3 Main Store
                         A huge storage complex. 
               level 2:  UAC3 "Deja Vu"
                         Ever had that feeling that you've `been here
                         before?'
               level 3:  UAC3 Portal 3
                         Ahh, some treasure! WHAT the hell?! Something just
                         shot me!
               level 4:  Double Whammy
                         Just when you think you've made it through to the
                         end of this level, you get hit with a double dose
                         of a rather nasty Doom denizen.
               level 5:  Nasty Start!
                         Shit! No sooner do you get started and you've been
                         spotted by a very nasty creature!
               level 6:  Twisted Lanes
                         Twisted laneways interspersed with twisted enemies.
                         And that's only the first half of this level!
               level 7:  Crossfire!
                         Do the wrong thing here, and you'll understand
                         the term `crossfire'.
               level 8:  Be Quick or Die!
                         No time to stop and think in this level! Conserve
                         that ammo on "I'm Soooo Good!"
               level 9:  Never Assume!
                         Just when you think you've got it won, well, never
                         assume victory until you've actually succeeded!
               level 10: HAUNTED!!!
                         Death will haunt you in this level, literally!





     EPISODE 4 - UAC Site 4: Fire of the Archvile
     Scaling a fence along a remote portion of the perimeter, you find
yourself standing in a small yard that accesses the UAC4 site. Episode 4
commences here.

     Whatever it is that lurks in the final level of the `Doom' dimension
from UAC4, it's a real scorcher!

     Objective: Eliminate the supreme Doom being that guards the final 
level. Once again, take caution in all areas of this `Doom' dimension, as
the odd deathtrap awaits!

     Episode 4 level 1:  UAC4 Portal 4
                         Do you have a habit of just rushing into the 
                         portals? Well, this portal could cure that habit
                         for you.
               level 2:  Spectres Haven
                         Lots of spectres, plus a few other things, as well!
               level 3:  Bluekey Trap
                         There's something guarding the blue key. Bang! It's
                         dead! BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG! You're dead!
               level 4:  They're Coming!
                         Who's coming? Well, hang around too long at the
                         start of this level, and you'll see. Better get
                         cracking before it's too late!
               level 5:  Hell's Pit
                         One day I'll make this into a proper Doom level,
                         with the centre being the lowest point, and
                         building up in height as you go outwards. Then it
                         really would be a pit!
               level 6:  Deathtrap
                         Ahhh, a simple, but if you're not careful,
                         devastatingly dangerous, deathtrap awaits you here.
                         Oh, and a toilet in case you almost wet your pants!
               level 7:  The Octagonal
                         The centre of this level radiates out into eight
                         directions. Trouble is telling which way you've
                         already been!
               level 8:  Quadrant X
                         Exploring the outskirts of this level is necessary
                         before entering the X shaped centre. Then four main 
                         areas to check out. Easy.
               level 9:  The Vile One
                         I wonder what this refers to?
               level 10: Spiral Nitemare
                         'round and 'round and 'round we go. Where it ends,
                         only Death knows!





     EPISODE 5 - UAC Site 5: Doom Blitzkrieg
     Finding an entrance to this UAC site won't be easy, but there is a
sneaky way you have found that takes you into a basement level. This is 
where you start off from in Episode 5. 

     This episode has what I feel are some of the most `Doomish' levels
you'll encounter in `Wolfendoom'.

     Objective: Use the earlier levels for practice. You'll need it for the
final onslaught that awaits you in level 9! Survive this, and you win!

     Episode 5 level 1:  UAC5 Doom Vault
                         Rumour has it that the military have built a huge
                         fortified holding area for housing creatures from
                         the `Doom' dimension. Rumour also has it that this
                         area is somewhere in this level. Well, you don't 
                         need to worry about this rumour, of course. You can
                         just exit this level quite easily and continue on 
                         in your mission to find the portal to the `Doom'
                         dimension. But then, there may be something worth
                         finding, mightn't there? Maybe you'll just never
                         know...
               level 2:  UAC5 Portal 5
                         Ahh yes, I like this portal. Gateway to some 
                         interesting areas. I wonder where that Cacodemon
                         came from?
               level 3:  Five by Five 
                         Five times five equals twenty-five. That's the
                         number of little buildings that make up this tidy
                         little town.
               level 4:  Centre Court
                         This is one of my favourite levels. A nice `Doom'
                         flavour (well at least I think so). Easy start,
                         like shooting rats in a barrel! And what's that
                         unusual message near the blue key? Yeah, I guess I
                         agree with it!
               level 5:  Danger Within
                         Slow and easy. That's the only way to survive this
                         level. Unless you're a complete Doomhead.
               level 6:  The Four Tests
                         Getting through this level doesn't require you to
                         enter every area. But that last room containing
                         the elevator, well, I hope you're on "Grandma"
                         skill level!
               level 7:  Centre of Death
                         Now I wonder what's in that room in the middle of
                         this level? Clue: the blue key is in there.
               level 8:  Looks safe, eh?
                         Yeah, it does look safe at the start, doesn't it?
                         Can't make it that easy, though!
               level 9:  Anyone Home?
                         Where is everyone? Oh, THERE they are!
               level 10: Survival Test
                         Quick thinking, and quick moving, will be needed
                         to survive this nightmare!





     EPISODE 6 - UAC Site 6: The Ultimate Challenge
     According to what your former UAC Research Department friend had told
you, the portal at UAC6, the first portal opened, has become increasingly
unstable. Some creatures have reportedly passed through the portal from the 
`Doom' dimension into the UAC site itself. UAC troopers have so far managed
to eliminate these creatures, but, just the same, take caution when moving
through this UAC site.

     One other hazard exists in the `Doom' dimension from UAC6, possibly the
most dangerous foe yet encountered. It takes the form of a deadly spectre
like entity - silent, fast, and totally invisible! If you're lucky, you may
see the slightest of shimmering on the ground caused by light diffusing as
it passes through this being. These entities CANNOT BE KILLED.

     Fortunately, though, these things are not yet free to roam the levels
within the `Doom' dimension - they are trapped within an enclosed area. They
cannot be released unless you deliberately let them out. Unfortunately,
though, the key required to proceed onwards to the next level is often
located in the same enclosed area as these invisible entities! So, when you 
see the blue access key in a particular area, do NOT access that area 
straight away. Plan your escape route before you let this dreaded guardian 
of the key out! Then grab the key and RUN!

     Objective: Possibly the most dangerous mission yet. Take extreme
caution in each level. Luckily, not all levels have an invisible entity, but
that doesn't mean you can afford to slack off! The guardian of the final
level has to be destroyed to end the Doom nightmare for once and for all.
But this guardian has its own unique form of protection. 

     * Please note that a 100% kill ratio is not attainable at the end of
those levels with an invincible nasty. 

     Episode 6 level 1:  UAC6 Main Entry
                         Hell, just stroll right in through the main entry.
                         Things couldn't be easier!
               level 2:  Aftermath
                         Hmmm, seems like you've missed all the action. Or
                         have you? Damn it, you'll have to waste time
                         finding secret pushwalls to get at that key.
               level 3:  Inner Portal
                         You're not quite in the `Doom' dimension in this
                         level. Something to do with the instability of this
                         portal, I suppose.
               level 4:  Silent Death
                         Named after the invisible entity within. I'm
                         feeling generous, so here's a tip; see those 
                         spectres at the start? Shoot them as soon as
                         you start this level, otherwise they might annoy
                         you later on. I just know I'll kick myself later
                         on for giving such good advice!
               level 5:  Go In, Get Out!
                         Do exactly as it says. Go in towards the centre
                         of this level, and then get the hell out of there!
               level 6:  The Fortress
                         Plenty of ammo, plenty of first aid. You'll
                         probably need it...
               level 7:  Not Over Yet!
                         It certainly isn't over yet! That chaingun is
                         smokin'!
               level 8:  EARN The Right!
                         You'll have to prove your worth to take on the
                         beast of the final level.
               level 9:  666
                         Survive this level on "Death Incarnate" without
                         cheating, and you're a true champ! No, it's not
                         impossible to do. All my levels are `winnable',
                         if you're good enough, that is!
               level 10: Daniel's Domain
                         This level is named after my 9 year old son, who
                         designed it. I have nothing to do with it what so
                         ever! All I did was to make sure the start and end
                         of this level married up with the levels before and
                         after it. He used Mapedit version 8 to create it, I
                         just imported it. See if you can outsmart the
                         devious mind of a 9 year old!
                         Oh, by the way, level 7 of Episode 1 (Cacodemon
                         Fun) was also largely influenced by a design of
                         my son. He was responsible for the way those first
                         Cacodemons you meet welcome you via those little
                         zig zag tunnels. Except he'd have 8 Cacodemons
                         coming to say hello. I'm not that nasty.

     One final word. Most of these new levels are rather large in size, but
not many are mazelike in construction. Unfortunately, Wolfenstein never had
an automap function, so I avoided making the levels too confusing. That's
not to say you won't get lost on the odd occasion, but it should be easy to
find your way again. A lot of these levels are re-edited versions of earlier
levels I'd made for Wolfenstein, but half of them were made especially for
`Wolfendoom'. I've tried to make it so that every level is possible to 
successfully complete without any form of cheating. I hate it when someone 
creates a level with so many enemies that you don't stand a bloody chance, 
or they hide essential items in places you've got bugger all chance of 
finding. All that does is make things frustrating by slowing down the 
gameplay. Hopefully, I've avoided these problems in `Wolfendoom', although
I must admit that some levels are rather difficult (unless you're an
absolute Doomhead that regularly kicks ass in these kind of games!).

     AReyeP
     (Steve Walley, Melbourne, Australia)
     Email: areyep@iaa.com.au
