This is the new, chaotic pseudo-readme file for Trilogy Revisited: Nocturnal Missions, 
a Wolfenstein 3D mapset by Serpens. To view the original Trilogy Revisited readme, 
see readme.ori.

	First of all, be warned that this file is just some of my random babbling, you could 
as well skip it and just play the game. However, if you want to know something about 
this mapset and its content, please read on.
	Trilogy Revisited was released earlier this year, namely in May 2007. Like this 
one, it was just a mere mapset, and didn't get too much popularity, although, unhumbly 
saying, the opinions I did receive were quite positive. It contained 30 new levels 
created from scratch, connected to the original only with their fabular line, which 
was also slightly altered. They were my first 30 levels created ever, when I had 
barely any connection with the Wolf3d community and played only a few addons, none 
of which really inspired me. The first levels of Episode 1 were of outrageously bad 
quality, but progressively got better. This mapset is nothing more than Trilogy Revisited's 
extension - thirty more maps, the Nocturnal Missions, which complete all six episodes 
and thus the Wolfenstein story.
	No fabular changes were made by me this time: find Giftmacher's hideout and kill 
him. Defeat Gretel Grosse and get the plans. Find General Fettgesicht, kill him and 
stop the Giftkrieg. While I didn't invent any new story, my level's arent all that 
random - they're progressively getting more ornate/neglected, you won't suddenly 
find a beautiful castle level just after emerging from the purple vines. Well, maybe 
you will, but if so, that's always for a reason. 
	I tried my best to make those levels as well designed, decorated and good to play 
as my skills allowed me. I realize that I'm far, far from the best mappers around, 
but nevertheless, the quality should be rather solid. When I'm writing this, I still 
don't know any opinion on them - not even WLHack's, who is the playtester again. 
I think so because I have contentrated on maps and maps only - the one remaining 
change in the game is... ceiling colours. As ack once said (not an exact quote), 
this is basically Wolfenstein 3D with my personal twist added into the game. :) Hopefully 
you'll like it... I really did my best. Even if one person enjoys playing this, I'll 
be happy.
	Hmm, did I say that there are 30 new maps? Well, not exactly. While the nostalgia 
was difficult to overcome, I have decided to completely replace E1L1 and E1L9, probably 
the two weakest points in original mapset, with new levels, hopefully better. So, 
a warning - when the level quality suddenly drops after the first one - hopefully 
not too much - this is the cause. I apologize, but this was probably the best solution... 
replacing my weakest Episode 1 completely was definitely not something I wished to 
achieve with this addon. On the other hand, one of the levels in Nocturnal Missions 
is actually one I released earlier, more specifically, its improved version. All 
others are completely new, unreleased maps.
	A few miscellaneous words and remarks... I spent especially much time and paid much 
attention to aesthetics and decoration of my levels. I'm a real maniac on this and 
hopefully, my work will be visible while playing. Decoration adjusted to level's 
theme... no objects obscuring Hitler's portraits or no Hitler's portraits in obscure 
areas :) (thanks ack!) et caetera. When it comes to boss levels, I'm a big fan of 
short, spectacular showdowns, like in Wolf3d, so this is what you can expect here. 
Still, I tried to make each boss level have its unique twist and challenge. Yes, 
challenge - my levels can be quite challenging at times, especially in Episode 6, 
but never impossible. 
	There is also one important aspect to this mapset, namely, its first thirty levels. 
I should have said this while mentioning replacements for E1L1 and E1L9, but this 
text is meant to be chaotic, remember? I took a close, critical look at my original 
levels and improved them quite a bit. Aesthetics were largely upgraded, gameplay 
too, some remaining bugs eliminated. Overall, the levels were cleaned up and generally 
better. If anyone played them earlier, the difference might be just visible. 
	Ahh, there is one more thing, a rather unpleasant one, but I have to write about 
it... bugs, those awful creatures which make games hang, close or explode. There 
is one instance where a bug might happen here, namely somewhere in Episode 6... the 
game can simply close itself there becase of too many objects or the like (I have 
no idea about technical issues), but this should be extremely rare. Actually, it 
never ever occured to me, but WLHack reported this problem. I already reduced the 
number of objects in the pointed out level, so it should be all right. Plus, if I 
understand correctly, the new exe which comes with this game contains memory fixes. 
Still, take care and save the game.
	Oh, well, enough of my ravings, I think... I've said enough already, perhaps not 
everything I wanted to, but that's inevitable. I didn't have a plan for this text 
file - I'm just sitting and writing whatever comes to my head. But this readme is 
still not complete. What's missing then? Well, a new credits list to merge with the 
original one! There are some people I'd like to thank for help and their contribution 
in the Nocturnal Missions. And so, the list goes...

WLHack - for being the playtester AGAIN (probably finding lots of bugs and giving 
useful advice as well, I still don't know when I'm writing this) and help with the 
exe AGAIN. Man, you contributed a LOT to this mapset. Thanks a thousand times!
ack - lots and lots of useful pointers and advice which allowed me to make my original 
trilogy better. As for WLHack, I can't find enough good words to express my gratitude.

AReyeP - for still incoming advice. Perhaps thanks to this, I'll release some kind 
of upgraded version to further improve my mapset's quality. 
Brian Lowe - again, for publishing this mapset.
Adhesive_Boy, Adam Biser, AReyeP (again), Thomas and Tricob, collectively, in no 
particular order - for advice on one of the levels which allowed me to improve it. 
Hopefully I didn't forget anyone. If you feel that you should be on the list, let 
me know!

This is all I have to say. Hope you'll enjoy my mapset.
Serpens
-----------------------------------------------
18.09.2007 - this text file was actually updated a bit after reading WLHack's feedback. 
One paragraph and one sentence were added, a few minor errors corrected, but this 
is not important since no one but me had the chance to read the original version. 
:)