Are you bored by the Nightmare Missions?  Tired of authors who think 
making a "harder" level means adding more bad guys?  In search of 
something *completely* different?  Nathaniel Rudiak-Gould has spent many 
months finding bizarre bugs and quirks in the Wolfenstein 3-D engine and 
turning them to his advantage.  Now, for all you Wolf3D connoisseurs, we 
present: _Temporary Insanity_.

_Temporary Insanity_ is a set of thirty Wolf3D levels in 6-episode 
format.  (Don't bother converting them to the shareware level format--
they won't work.  3-episode *might* work, but we haven't tested it.)  
Some of these levels were previously released as "Nat's Wolfenstein 3-D 
levels," but most are completely new.  Each of the levels uses both keys 
and fills the entire map.  Just like in the original levels, you'll 
start in a jail cell, but this time it's locked... and you don't have 
the key.  It gets worse from there.

These levels use tons of neat effects you have probably never seen 
before: walk-through walls, walk-through objects, self-moving blocks, 
invisible enemies, statues that spring to life when you shoot them, 
areas where you move uncontrollably, red-hot walls (don't stand too 
close!), locked doors that can't be opened with either key, forcefields, 
areas that can only be reached on certain difficulty levels, time limits 
(no, not par times, actual time limits enforced by the game), places 
where winning depends on knowing who *not* to kill, mazes where facing 
the wrong direction can be fatal, two secret levels for Episode One, and 
much more!  All of this is done without modifying the Wolf3D program in 
any way.

Along with the new maps, we've included Nat's 40-page hint file for all 
thirty levels and his add-on map pictures that allow you to see the 
levels correctly from the map editor.  (PLEASE only look at levels that 
you have already completed.  You may never find many of the neatest 
things in the levels if you cheat, give up, or look at the maps, so use 
the hint book when you have trouble.)

*All of these levels can be won at all difficulty levels*.  This isn't 
as obvious as it seems.  Many people have emailed us complaining that 
Nat's levels are impossible.  In one level, for example, you will start 
in a room that is completely walled off, and from which there is 
obviously no way out.  You could even ignore our advice and use the map 
editor to look at the level, and you would still see that there is 
obviously no way out.  Don't be fooled.  There *is* a way out.  And if 
your gun suddenly starts to fire uncontrollably, or you suddenly can't 
use your gun at all, don't send a bug report to us (or Apogee!).  It's 
all part of Nat's evil plan.

We appreciate all responses, so send all your questions and any comments 
on how you like the levels to benrg (at) uclink.berkeley.edu.  Enjoy... and 
good luck getting out of the first room!

        -- Nathaniel Rudiak-Gould (the guy who designed the levels)
            and Ben Rudiak-Gould  (the guy with the email address)

