
Wolf-Extra III, part 6.


Text file accompanying Wolf-Extra III part 6, a Wolfenstein adventure.


Thank you for wanting to play Wolf-Extra III part 6.

In order to play Wolf-Extra III part 6 you need to own a registered version of Spear 
of Destiny by ID Software. Copy the AUDIOHED and AUDIOT files from Spear of Destiny 
to Wolf-Extra III part 6 and change the extensions accordingly:

audiohed.x36
audiot.x36


Important: All parts of Wolf-Extra III must be installed in different directories 
(folders).


All parts have been tested and won on "Death Incarnate" with total ratios of 100% 
in all three categories.

Remember to leave saved games in different slots so that you may go back to different 
stages of the game you are in if you need to.

Although it is smart to save often, do not save too quickly without thinking, or 
without been sure it is wise to save!


Wolf-Extra III tactics: Use stealth as much as possible and find the right passages.

Fight with the knife or a silent pistol (where there is one) to avoid being noticed, 
especially at the beginning of each game.

Please note: You may sometimes lose your ammo when entering certain small rooms or 
elevators for the first time.
This will only happen the first time, not when you reenter the rooms later.


Important hints for all parts:

1) Do not take more than one cross at a time while there are still more death chalices 
in the game.
Failing at this may often make it impossible to finish the game!
It is sometimes necessary to figure out which death chalice to pick up next!

2) Make sure an enemy who may leave you something necessary never falls on top of 
a death chalice.
This is applicable even if you carry a cross since you may need to pick up another 
death chalice first.

3) When you enter an elevator to another floor wait long enough before opening the 
elevator door on the new floor to make sure the elevator door you just walked through 
is closed.
Not doing this will in many instances prove fatal. This is to avoid enemies on the 
previous floor hearing you if you start fire immediately on the next floor.

Important hints for part 6:

1) Part 6 offers a lot of puzzles, and hard fighting in certain stages. Quick thinking 
is sometimes required. Many different situations may occur. No matter what, you should 
always manage to get through.
The author of this game has played it through several times on purpose making the 
most difficult situations occur.

2) Remember to find time and opportunity to finish off ALL mutants on floor 3 (the 
roof) at some stage before the final stage. Otherwise they will prove an extreme 
nuisance in the final stage of the game.

3) Make sure you don't trip over a death chalice accidentally when you may need the 
cross you carry for another!


Each difficulty setting has the same number of enemies, but they are harder to beat 
on the higher settings.



Paal Olstad (Poet).


p-olstad@online.no
