Castle Wolfenstein 3-D New Game Map

This archive file contains three files:

WOLF#1.TXT    This file
MAPHEAD.NEW
GAMEMAPS.NEW

Before you can use these files you must do a bit of changing of the original
game files you may have on hand. The new maps won't run properly on the 
shareware demo even though they will load, it has some strange effects and
locks up after a very short time.

You will have to rename the original files. I suggest you use the same 
filename but change the extension to ".ORG" to symbolize it is an original
file to make changing back to the original version of the game later on easy.

Rename the MAPHEAD.xxx (where xxx = WL3 or WL6) to MAPHEAD.ORG.

Rename the GAMEMAPS.xxx to GAMEMAPS.ORG.

Now simply rename the new game files listed above to the version you have.
If all your game files have the ".WL3" extension then rename the ".NEW" files
with that extension. 

Example: REN MAPHEAD.NEW MAPHEAD.WL3

If your files have extensions of ".WL6" use those extensions instead
of the ".WL3" shown above.

These files contain information for 10 totally new levels for the first game
of Castle Wolfenstein 3-D. Don't be alarmed if you go to play games 2-3 or 
2-6 if you have them. I have disabled the maps to those versions in these 
files. So those of you with the shareware version won't notice any difference
in the number of games you can play, but then again you won't be getting a
bonus of games 2-6 for free either. This is the only way I can think of
protecting Apogee's rights while adding some new excitement to the game.

To restore the original maps all you should do is rename the MAPHEAD.xxx and
GAMEMAPS.xxx files to ".NEW" and then rename the ".ORG" files to their 
original file extension of ".WL3", or "WL6".

These new floors for the most part are more complex than the originals. The      
                              
average playing time on most (not all) of them was close to 20 minutes. 
Considering I knew where everything was it will probably take you a bit longer
to complete each level. <Grin> This set of floors does not contain a 
"secret level" as such. I opted for a linear progression from level 1 to 10,
however the program still shows that level 9 is a secret level when (if) you
complete it and just gives you a completion bonus. Sorry about that. So for
this set at least you don't have to worry about finding a secret level. I've
also discovered a nifty little trick that I'm sure is going to have you 
cursing my name, but I won't tell you where it is! I'll let you find it
yourself. <Grin>
                                    
The self-running demo will also be affected by my changes to the file. Don't
panic, by restoring the original files the demo will be returned to normal.

One word of advice I'll pass along: SAVE THE GAME OFTEN.

I hope you enjoy the new challenge.                                    

                                    Keith Heitmann, Prodigy #GVXV90A

