"Operation: Hundscheisse" (DOS and SDL version) help/mini manual 

Greetings!  Thanks for downloading Operation Hundscheisse!  There is an online web 
site devoted to this game, but in case you don't have access to the net, or just 
want some quick help or reference material, this mini manual will save you a visit 
to the site.  Just in case you don't know the site address, it's:  http://www.angelfire.com/droid/majikmonkee/OHSpage.html




Known Problems:

OHS was designed to be as "glitch free" as possible.  Of course, nobody is perfect, 
and neither is any program I know of, so here's the known problems with OHS.

DISPLAY ISSUES - Occasionally, after completing certain levels, a small gray box 
will appear in a certain area of the score tally screen.  This won't affect gameplay 
in any way, and only appears at menu screens.  Saving your game and restarting the 
program usually gets rid of it.  Like I said, it doesn't affect game play in any 
known way, it's just slightly annoying.  Likewise, after extended playing, certain 
wall textures will appear differently than intended, usually as plain gray brick 
walls here and there.  It will usually be obvious, and they will look out of place. 
 This is a problem inherent in the SOD engine, and restarting the program will take 
care of this.

OTHER ISSUES - I don't know of any other problems currently. If your PC does not 
want to run OHS, check out some of the troubleshooting tips on the web for running 
Wolfenstein 3D in general. I don't really want to get into all of that here. Wolfenstein 
doesn't seem to like Windows, so try running it in DOS mode if you are not already.


If you discover any other issues or glitches, let me know, and I'll add them to future 
versions of this document.



Story: 

The full story is pretty long, so this is just going to be a shortened version with 
the important details included in it.  By the way, sooner or later, someone is going 
to notice the similarity anyway, so I must give credit for the inspiration for this 
game's plot to the "Medal of Honor: Underground" secret level called "Where Beagles 
Dare".  If you've never seen it before, it's hilarious, and an absolute must.  Anyway, 
here's the story...

During WWII, there was an officer named Fett Schwanz, who none of the other Germans 
liked, because he was a bit rough around the edges, and a little...well...crazy. 
 They didn't want him leading troops on the front lines, but they couldn't get rid 
of him either, so they stuck him in a remote castle on the German countryside where 
he was ordered to "guard" some important German treasures (including the remains 
of the Angel of Death), and await further orders.

Well, the war ended, and the Nazis were defeated, and Fett Schwanz was totally forgotten. 
 It wasn't until a delivery man came by one day and let it slip that Schwanz discovered 
the Fuhrer was defeated, and he'd been wasting away in Castle Schwanz for years for 
nothing.  This made him a little angry, and he resolved to get revenge for the fall 
of the Nazi party one way or the other.

It wasn't hard for Schwanz to find out who had defeated Hitler...BJ's name was pretty 
much a household word by the time Schwanz first heard it.  He discovered that BJ 
had retired a long time ago, and was currently a farmer in Mississippi, trying to 
spend his last years in quiet seclusion, free from both the fame from his war accomplishments 
and the ghosts that haunted  him from all the battles he'd fought.  Well, he wasn't 
finished fighting yet, he just didn't know it.

Even though, through scientific methods, Fett hadn't aged much since the days of 
the war, his men had all grown old and retired, so Fett set about recruiting a new 
"army" of next generation militant Nazi sympathizers, and made his way to America. 
 His men were able to forge the necessary papers to move through immigration, and 
before long, Schwanz had established himself in an abandoned prison, Deedend Penitentiary, 
not far from BJ's farm in Mississippi.

Schwanz spent several months preparing his forces to not only destroy BJ, but eventually 
spread across the face of the country that sent BJ in the first place, the USA.  
Being that he was very fond of dogs and trusted them more than humans, he bred genetically 
enhanced dog troopers to strengthen his army.  In addition, he used a variety of 
scientific knowledge and equipment to create a host of other creatures and freaks 
to guard the Deedend stronghold.  With an almost endless supply of money (from the 
treasures he'd been protecting at Castle Schwanz), Fett was able to purchase large 
quantities of illegally supplied weapons to outfit his troops.  It seemed there was 
nothing to stand in the way of him and his plans for conquest...and revenge.

Anyway, one night, while BJ was out tending to farm buisness, Fett decided to make 
his move.  A horde of dog troops appeared out of nowhere and tried to kill BJ, and 
burned his farm down.  BJ managed to escape, and ran in the direction of the supposedly 
abandoned Deedend Penitentiary.  Seeing lights on inside, he snuck in through a forgotten 
back entrance, but realized right away that the inhabitants were not friendly.  BJ 
was able to determine that Penitentiary was the source of the dog troopers, and whoever 
was behind the assault on his property and life.  Even though BJ was well into his 
70's, and carrying nothing but a slingshot he used to scare off wild animals, he 
decided it was time for one last battle with the Nazis...and this time, it was personal!




Controls: 

The standard controls are whatever you set them up to be.   There are a couple of 
features in OHS though that you won't find in other Wolf3D games (most of the time).


"F11" key - This will hide your weapon from your view.  This is useful if you are 
using a weapon that takes up a lot of the screen (like the #3 slingshot), and want 
to see better what's in front of you.  You can bring your weapon back up by pressing 
F11 again, or by pressing the "fire" key twice.

"X" key - Having trouble aiming accurately with your slingshot?  No problem.  Pressing 
the "x" key will bring up a state of the art laser sight you can use to achieve pinpoint 
accuracy when firing.  If it gets too annoying, you can make it go away by pressing 
"x" again.



Difficulty Settings:

Even though there will be four different difficulty settings to choose from when 
playing OHS, they are actually very similar.  The only difference between them will 
be the amount of damage enemies dish out, and how much they can take.  Unlike a lot 
of other Wolfenstein based games, choosing an easier or more difficult game setting 
will not affect placement or number of enemies you will face.  Still, if you are 
having trouble with bosses, choosing an easier setting will make the boss battles 
easier for you, just as a harder setting will boost he challenge if things are too 
easy.



Enemies: 

There are lots of enemies in OHS, some of which appear in the original Spear of Destiny. 
 The good news though is that if you know what enemy each OHS enemy is based on from 
the original game, you should be prepared for the challenges you'll face.

Dog - Exactly the same as the dogs from the original Wolfenstein games.  They only 
take one shot most of the time, and are easy to take out with the pitchfork if need 
be.  Being a dog lover, Fett will have more than a couple of these around guarding 
the prison.  You wish all dogs were this easy to get rid of.

Guard - The same  boring brown uniformed Nazis from SOD.  The most common enemy you'll 
face in OHS.  These guys were recruited by Fett for their loyalty to the Nazi party, 
even decades after the end of WWII.  Luckily for BJ, their training isn't that great, 
so it's easy to get the drop on them most of the time.  They drop ammo clips if you 
take them out.

Dog Soldier - These "guys" replace the SS soldiers from the original SOD.  Fett has 
always trusted dogs more than humans for their great sense of loyalty, and ability 
to track their prey.  Using genetics and scientific knowledge, he was able to breed 
these dangerous dog troops that walk (and kind of talk) and use weapons like men. 
 Beware!  If one gets the drop on you, there's a good chance your game is up!  If 
you defeat one, you get a weapons boost that gives you the #2 slingshot.

Death Angel - These creatures replace the SOD officers.  One of the many "treasures" 
Fett was called on to guard during his time at Castle Schwanz was the remains of 
the Angel of Death that BJ destroyed in SOD.  Fett was able to use high tech cloning 
chambers to produce less powerful but still dangerous clones of the Angel of Death 
to serve as guards for the halls of Deedend.  They are pretty fast, but not too tough. 
 If BJ has the good fortune to kill one of them, he will get an ammo clip as a reward.


Mutant - Replaces...what else?...the mutants from SOD.  Not all of Fett's experiments 
work out that great.  These creatures are a mixture of human, reptile, and mammal 
DNA, designed to create creatures with excellent hunting senses and powerful natural 
defenses.  They attack silently and without warning, so be very wary if you think 
there might be mutants around!  The good news is they are fairly large, making it 
easier to spot them.  You'll get an ammo clip if you destroy one.

Ghost - Um...ghosts?  What ghosts?  :)

Hans Scheissekopf - Replaces Trans Grosse from SOD.  Hans has been the unfortunate 
voluntary subject of a variety of hormone and chemical tests by Schwanz that were 
supposed to enhance his physical abilities.  Instead, they've just kind of screwed 
him up and confused him, causing him to hate all humanity, with the exception of 
Schwanz.  He keeps to himself, and guards the lowest level of Deedend Penitentiary. 
 Don't expect him to be happy to see a 70+ year old man wandering around his floor 
making a mess of things.

Mini Mutant Bros. (mutant twins) - These "guys" replace Ubermutant from SOD.  Using 
previously undiscovered methods, Schwanz succeeded in miniaturizing dead bodies (to 
increase their stealth), fitting them with guns, and reanimating them, much as Dr. 
Schabbs had once done.  They work in perfect syncronization to hunt down and destroy 
intruders with deadly efficiency.  Don't let their size fool you...they are no laughing 
matter.  They guard the second floor of Deedend, so be on the lookout for them.  
Rumor has it that other pairs of these nasty little freaks may lurk elsewhere in 
the facility!

Esel Gross (cyber dog) - Replaces Death Knight from SOD.  Fett did his initial canine 
ehancement experiments not on unborn dogs, but on his existing pets, his favorite 
of which was Esel.  Encased in a powerful armored suit Esel posesses the intelligence 
to seek out and destroy intruders, and the firepower to ensure he succeeds once he's 
found them.  He serves as the commander of Fett's dog army, and he guards the third 
floor armory where Fett keeps most of his weapons.  Be especially wary of his missiles, 
which can level you in a single shot!  Rumors persist that somewhere in the facility 
there are others like Esel...beware!

Fett Schwanz - Replaces Barnacle Wilhelm from SOD.  Fett is one messed up dude.  
He started out as a semi normal officer near the beginning of WWII, until a shell 
exploded in his fox hole one day and made him a bit crazy.  After that, he let his 
appearance go, and had less regard for orders than he once did,  preferring to try 
to do things his own way whenever possible.  With the help of a scientist named Dr. 
Cyclops, he began trying to come up with ways to win the war through the use of genetically 
enhanced soldiers and mutants, rather than standard warfare.  Because of his apparant 
inability to age, thanks to a special serum Dr. Cyclops gave him, rumors abound that 
Schwanz is immortal, though it's never been proven.  As part of his craziness, Fett 
has transformed Deedend Penitentiary into what he believes to be his grand castle, 
over which he is the supreme ruler.  It is from this "castle" that he leads what 
he believes to be a righteous crusade to avenge the death of Hitler and the Third 
Reich by destroying BJ Blazkowicz, and eventually, the entire United States of America. 
 He attacks with a modified hand-held rocket launcher that fires both rockets and 
bullets.  Be careful when facing him...he's very sneaky.

(Angel of Death replacement) - What?  Who said there was an enemy to replace the 
Angel of Death?  Oh, yeah...I guess the game doesn't end if there's not one.  Well, 
I'm not telling you what it is, then.  You'll just have to figure it out on your 
own.  Sorry!  :)



Weapons: 

BJ has four different weapons available in OHS.  Two you begin with, the rest you'll 
have to gain by finding weapon power-ups, either hidden or acquired from dead enemies.


Pitchfork - As a farmer, it's not unusual for BJ to own one of these.  It's lucky 
for him that he happened to be carrying it when he was run out of his home by the 
dog troopers.  Slightly more powerful than the knife from the original SOD, but crappy 
against tougher enemies.

Slingshot - This weapon behaves like the pistol in SOD, but you'll find that it is 
slightly more powerful.  Thanks to years of practice, BJ is deadly  with the slingshot, 
and can take out an enemy with lethal accuracy from a hundred feet away.  It's not 
that great against boss enemies, though, or when you're surrounded by multiple foes.


Rapid Slingshot - This is the primary automatic weapon of OHS.  With this upgrade, 
BJ can fire several pellets in rapid succession rather than just one at a time, making 
it more useful for crowd control.  Unfortunately, it's a little less powerful than 
the standard slingshot due to less time spent aiming, but the increased firing speed 
kind of makes up for that in the long run.

Mega Slingshot - The same as a chaingun in the original Wolf3D games, only in slingshot 
form.  With this upgrade, BJ's slingshot virtually spews shots at the enemy, leveling 
regular dopes, and giving boss enemies a run for their money.  Just like ALL other 
chaingun type weapons, though, it will waste your ammo if you use it all the time, 
so it's best called upon when you're severely outnumbered, or facing particularly 
tough bosses.


Treasure:

I don't really feel like talking too much about the treasure.  It's the same as with 
all other Wolfenstein games, just a different color. In a nutshell, here are the 
treasure types, and what each is worth, just in case you are new to this still:

cross - 100 points

chalice - 500 points

treasure chest - 1000 points

crown - 5000 points


Health and Ammo:

Another section I don't want to waste words on. Sorry, but this is the boring part, 
quoting numbers and values, etc.  Here are the basic pickups and what you get from 
them, though:

ammo clip - 8 bullets for a fresh one, 4 from a dead enemy

ammo crate - 25 bullets per crate

green and red keys - opens doors...what else?

dog food - +5 health

chicken dinner - +10 health

first aid kit - +25 health

extra life - extra life and full health + bullet bonus


Missions and Hints:

This is a summary of what to expect from each level, as well as a description of 
what each area is supposed to be.  Warning...there are tips after each level description 
that you may not want to see, depending on how determined you are to finish the game 
on your own without help.  They may also include plot spoilers, even though there's 
not a huge amount of plot development during the game.  Nonetheless, you've been 
warned.  Anyway, here it is...


MISSION 1 - Eliminate Hans Scheissekopf 

BJ enters Deedend Penitentiary through the basement level, which opens to the outside 
in a forgotten overgrown area. His mission is to take out the guards of the lower 
level, and find it's guardian, Hans Scheissekopf. Hans will most likely be in a bad 
mood when encountered. You would be to if you were kept in a basement, with a room 
the size of a closet as your "lair". Defeating Hans will allow BJ access to the elevator, 
and the upper levels of the prison. Look out for dog troopers that will be hunting 
BJ after his confrontation with Hans.

HINTS:

If you go to through the first door to the right instead of the left, you'll come 
across a weapon that will help mike life easier later in the level.

In some areas, it's better to run to a safer area than confront enemies in an open 
environment.  Don't underestimate the value of picking off enemies one at a time 
in a doorway.

Conserve ammo when you face Hans.  You should know his lair when you find it.  If 
you've gathered max health and ammo, you shouldn't have to leave his room during 
the battle.


MISSION 2 - Terminate the Mini Mutant brothers

This floor doubles as the lowest prison level, as well as a loading dock for incoming 
supplies. Fett Schwanz is smuggling stolen US Army weaponry and equipment into his 
facility, and some of it can be found here, though most is in the upper level storage. 
You will find the remains of many of Scwhanz's enemies, either imprisoned or scattered 
about on this floor. The Mini-Mutant brothers guard this floor, waiting to silenty 
ambush any intruders foolish enough to visit the floor. Eliminate them, and move 
on to the next area. Beware...they are not the only freaks BJ will encounter on this 
floor.

HINTS:

There are a lot of rooms in this area with walls and obstacles out in the middle 
of the room.  Guards like to hide behind these.  Don't relax in a room until you're 
sure there are no more guards.
Keep an eye out for hints about where secret areas are.  Sometimes you can see a 
secret that you can't reach until later.  There is always a way into them somehow.


Look for a suspicous blank wall to find the slingshot #3 in this level.  This is 
the first place you can find it, and it will make the going a lot easier, especially 
with the boss.

When battling the Mini Mutant Bros, don't lose them in the maze of blocks.  Try to 
get them into a pattern of circling a single set of walls where there's health nearby 
just in case.

There are some death angels that may or may not take an interest in you after you've 
dealt with the Mini Mutant bros.  Be prepared either way in case you stumble across 
them.


MISSION 3 - Destroy Esel Gross

The third floor BJ will discover used to be another prison level, but most of the 
cells are empty or used to store stolen weapons and goods. Most of Schwanz's stash 
of US equipment is located here, not that it will help BJ any. BJ must keep an eye 
out for a growing number of nasty creatures on this floor, as well as the usual dog 
troopers and standard guards. The real threat will come in the form of Esel Gross, 
the "commander" of the hound troopers, and top dog around these parts. If BJ can 
open enough "whoopass" on Esel, it's on to the final floor...the private quarters 
of Fett Schwanz himself!

HINTS:

There is a lot of junk scattered about and a lot of boxes obscuring your view in 
this area.  In other words, there are a million places for enemies to hide, so really 
watch your back!

Walls aren't the only place where secrets can be hidden.  Some of the larger boxes 
may be moveable, and may reveal rewards if you push them around just right.

There are a couple areas where there are objects big enough for enemies to hide behind, 
but they can still shoot through them.  Use these to your advantage whenever you 
can.

Conserve your ammo when you fight Esel.  If you run out, you may be forced to run 
in his room to get more, which is risky when he's taking rocket shots at you in tight 
quarters.

Some soldiers elsewhere in the level will take in interest in you when you begin 
to battle Esel.  Watch your back once the battle has begun, or you may be sorry.



MISSION 4 - Die, Schwanz, Die!! 

Yes, you read that right...Fett Schwanz lurks somewhere on this floor. Of all the 
areas in the prison, this is by far the nicest BJ will come across (which isn't saying 
very much). Once BJ destroys Schwanz, the heart of Operation: Hundscheisse will be 
shut down, but it's not time to rest yet...heck will surely break loose as BJ tries 
to escape with his life to the final elevator. But wait...that was the final floor, 
right?

HINTS:

You're sorely outnumbered when the mission begins.  Try not to alert enemies of your 
presence when you're in a spot where you are at a disadvantage in a firefight.

Remember where the storage rooms are in this level.  Health and ammo can be scarce 
in some areas, and you'll want to have access to these supplies of them later on.


Try not to let enemy soldiers who are alerted to your presence run through doors 
that haven't been opened yet.  In some areas, this will summon hordes of troops you're 
not ready to face yet.

Fett may not be where you expect him to be when you battle him.  Stay alert as things 
appear to look more and more like what you'd expect his inner sanctum to look like.


When you defeat Fett, the level isn't over yet.  In fact, the greatest challenge 
may yet remain.  Proceed with caution through his escape tunnels, and conserve health 
and ammo.


MISSION 5 - The Laboratory

BJ finds something he wasn't expecting...a lab area, accessible only from the elevator 
in Schwanz's quarters. It is from within this lab that the freakish minions serving 
Scwhanz are born, and there are sure to be plenty of them still wandering around 
(right?). BJ lays waste to the creeps guarding the lab, to ensure the minions of 
Schwanz are stamped out. There doesn't seem to be anymore elevators, but wait a second...who 
put those remains of Fett Schwanz on this floor? Better grab them and get rid of 
them before someone tries some crazy reanimation stunt...

HINTS  (SPOILER WARNING!!):

Surprise!  There are very few enemies you actually have to battle on this floor. 
 There are a total of five pairs of mutant twins guarding this floor, but if you 
are careful, you will probably only have to deal with three of them.  Don't wander 
around among the dog soldier incubation chambers in the rooms adjacent to the first 
main room any more than you need to.

If you enter a room and alert a pair of mutant twins, don't battle them in the room 
they originated in, or you may alert a second pair.  Draw them elsewhere and defeat 
them.  If you're careful, you should never alert more than one pair of mutants at 
a time (you'll be sorry if you do!).

Don't be afraid to take advantage of the health and ammo around the level.  It will 
all be replenished before you face the final boss.  It sounds strange, but it's true.


Before you touch the remains of Schwanz in the reanimation room, make SURE you are 
at full health and ammunition.  If not, you may meet a miserable end.


MISSION 5*- The Laboratory??

(SPOILER WARNING!!)  BJ destroyed Fett, but it was only a matter of time before Fett 
would be reanimated by the special serum in his bloodstream.  Well, BJ disrupts the 
reanimation process when he messes with Fett's remains, and retribution is swift 
and brutal!  The laboratory is set to alert mode, and monsters begin pouring out 
of the woodwork in an effort to prevent BJ from ever making it out alive.  If you're 
not VERY careful, they just might too!  Good luck, BJ!  This is it!!

HINTS  (SPOILER WARNING!!):

When you first start this side of the level, you'll be in a dangerous situation. 
 Plan carefully how to get yourself out of the mess you're in,  but do it quickly...the 
enemies are coming for you!

Every monster in the level is seeking BJ out at this point (remember where the statues 
and mutant lockers were?), and they will find you sooner or later.  Make sure you 
revisit areas where health and ammo were abundant before (it's all replenished now), 
because you'll need a lot of it to survive!  (NOTE:  The mutant twins won't be around 
anymore after you grab Fett's remains).

You don't need to revisit the entire level...there's no bonus if you do.  Just finish 
off the last boss, and the game will end.  That's easier said than done with all 
the monsters around...



Well, that's about it!  There's really nothing more to cover, and playing the game 
is more fun than reading this manual anyway, right?  For questions or comments about 
the game, for either the creator of the game, Majik Monkee, send an email to:

matthewmdmerrill@yahoo.com

Well, that's all, folks!  Have fun!!


OHS KREDITS:

BIG fat thanks to the following people who have made OHS a reality. 


Concept: Dumscheissekopf

Graphics:  Majik Monkee, some original grahics from Spear of Destiny by ID Software


Sound: voices by Majik Monkee, The Incredible Pete, Sam "Bubba" Merrill

Music:  Original scores from Spear of Destiny by ID Software 

Level Design:  Majik Monkee

Coding Requests:  "The Choksta"

SDL Version: Andy Nonymous

Testing:  ack, Majik Monkee, The Incredible Pete

Caffeine:  "Convenience Barn" 32 oz Diet Pepsis

Special thanks to everyone for all their hard work and contributions, and to the 
Diehard Wolfers community for some valuable (and otherwise) feedback.


~Majik Monkee~
