Introduction:
Thanks for downloading Beyond Castle's Dungeons, but thanks to Wolf Skevos Jones, 
the real 
creator of this game. I just have take it to work in a great homenage for him. If 
you have any questions,
commentes, see at the Read This the e-mail of WSJ.

Story:
After the battle at Mario's Castle, he loose many guards, installations and treasures. 
The Spear of 
Destiny has been acquired and the peace come again, but the installations are still 
losts. While
Mario gets ready to leave the castle, a old enemy Wario, have detected a very strange 
presence
while he visits the dungeons. In the investigation of Wario, he fainted. Two hours 
later,  Wario
woke up and see Mario, Luigi and Waluigi. He asked:
-Where is this place?
Mario- In the castle. You want...
Waluigi- Later we see this! Tell me what is happened!

Luigi leave the room to take some water to Wario.

Wario-I don't know. I just have see a flying skull come to me.

The other friends of Mario come to the room, to a safe place.

Mario- I know what to do. I will call the Cap. B.J. to investigate all the dungeons. 
But first, I have
             to warning Lt.Flinhessmeister about this.

The enemies
 Wermacht Guard- this soldiers are not too dangerous. He have a Lugger, but carefull

if they come in groups.
 SS Infantry- they are great warriors in battle, huge than guards. He MP40 can cause 
serious
damage. Avoid fight with one SS Group.
 Mutant- the mutants are too dangerous than SS. The Lugger mounted in he chest is 
automatic,
making a very fast and powerfull shot. Stay away from him!
 Officer- they command all strategies inside castle.Can beat the guards easly.The 
Lugger is fast,
but not too than mutant.
 Mutant SS- this guard is very dangerous. He use a ????. He can beat you. In groups, 
they are
deadly. Very powerfull.
 Sniper- the sniper need of a good target, and you are perfect. He stay in the same 
place 
everytime, and he shot is not weak. Use a Mauser.
  Venon Soldiers- this soldiers are strong, and have a serious guns: the Chain Gun 
and the
Flame Thrower. Find they and see results.

The Bosses
Black Dark Angel- same evil of Angel of Darkness, but live at the Dungeons. He is 
a many
nazi souls united, who want a revenge.

Lt. Flinhessmeister- he is the big boss of the dungeons. It was a great soldier of 
Cp.Flocas,
and now he joined with Mario to conpensate his mistake. Mario forgot of speak to 
him don't kill
B.J.

The ultimate dungeons soldiers

Super Soldier- they was controlled by the evil Dr.Fleischaker, but some of this guards 

aren't dead.So, Mario was contrated they.

Grob S.Mutant- this creation is an better version of S.Mutant of Schabbs.He are the

strongest soldier of dungeons and he's appearance is rare.

Iron Knight- this is a new construction of the older. He's not too powerfull, not 
too 
strong, but is the most powerfully soldier

My e-mail is wolfmaniacbros (at) .yahoo.com.br. If my english is wrong, sorry. I am brazilian.




