
Mac-enstein Second Encounter SDL 2.01    December 15, 2010
                                 2.02     January 24, 2011 

Wolfenstein 3D (c) 1992 id Software, Inc.
Second Encounter levels, artwork, sounds and music (c) 1994 InterPlay Productions



This game requires the Mac-enstein First Encounter SDL 2.0 files, which are
available at www.wolfensteingoodies.com. Just add and overwrite these files
to the same folder as the First Encounter's and then run SECOND.BAT. If you
prefer making your own shortcut, you have to use "--encounter 2" as a
parameter to run the Second Encounter. This is because the EXE supports
multiple Encounters.

The EXE with this release contains some performance enhancements for a better
frame rate - smoother movement! It also corrects some enemy behavior behind
pushwalls ... so replace that old EXE!

The volumes of the boss sounds have been increased, so the files in the 
sounds folder should be replaced with the new ones.

One obscure bug: if you ctl+esc (minimize) from fullscreen (monitor) mode, 
returning to the game corrupts the VGA graphics, so the status bar (and get 
psyched) is garbled. Either don't do that, or if you must, add "--nodblbuf"
to the command line.

Tab-M toggles the player speed between Mac and PC, Tab-F toggles the
damage flash, and Tab-B toggles between the original (buggy) dog attack sound 
and the corrected one. All default to the Mac Wolfenstein behavior, and your
preference will be saved in the config file.

All Wolf3d v1.4 cheats are now available to use, though I would advise
against using tedlevel because that messes up the HUD level numbers. Warping
is better.

For this release, many thanks go to AlumiuN for his Advanced Sound Manager
code, and to Havoc for a code tweak that helped me keep this incremental 
release very small. Thank you ponz for finding some potentially embarassing 
bugs, and props to Brian Lowe (Schabbs) for hosting this on the Wolf3D Dome!

Improvements from the first version of Mac-enstein Second Encounter SDL:

- It uses AlumiuN's Advanced Sound Manager, which allows use of OGG music 
  files of the original Mac Wolfenstein music. There are also separate 
  volume controls for music and sounds.
- All screen resolutions supported by Wolf4SDL and your monitor are possible: 
  320x200, 320x240, or any multiple of either. Defaults to 640x400. So now
  you can play in the Mac's original 640x480 mode.
- Macintosh Wolfenstein color palette is used. I took the liberty of changing 
  the duplicate (unused) colors at the end of the palette to support the PC 
  Wolf3d menus, though.
- Mechahitler death sounds and points awarded corrected
- Four pushwalls in level 6-4 needed guard blockers 2 spaces behind them to
  avoid potentially trapping enemies behind them. This matches the Mac
  Wolfenstein gameplay now.
- All levels are included in final ratios, including secret levels. So if 
  you want to get 100% across the board when the game ends, better find those 
  secret levels!

The credits and notes from the previous SDL version, most of which still apply, 

can be read in FIRST.TXT, along with the coding timelines.


Andy

