	2011
	Wolf3d Haven

Dark_wizzie



[SOD, HAVEN STYLE README – EASY MODE]
This is the readme for SHS, Easy Mode.

 
Spear of Destiny, Haven Style – Easy Mode
This game is version: v0.4 by Dark_wizzie
Contact Wolf3d Haven at: www.wolf3d.darkbb.com 
========================================================================	This is 
the second Wolf3d Haven mapset. I helped make the Super Haven Mapset, a 60 level 
Wolf3d mapset. 
	This time I try to present you with only good levels. (I’m not saying I’m the best 
at making levels, but I’m trying my best!) This time around, almost all levels are 
made by me. There are also less treasures and glitches in the levels. Ahem. I meant, 
no glitches. (Note: With the pushwalls near the doors, sometimes it might seem like 
guards are under the wrong floor code. But not often.)
	To make sure people get to play all the levels I made, I have placed the elevators 
to secret levels out in the open. It would be kind of sad if you couldn’t find them. 
;) (Note that actually getting to the secret elevator is a bit more difficult than 
going to regular one. You gotta pay to play!)
	Some of the levels were made from quite a while ago (yes, they are all un-released 
maps), so sometimes the mapping style might change a bit. Also, on the same difficulty 
level, some levels could be easier or harder to beat than others. That’s just how 
it is. One thing I don’t think would bother most people is that the elevator you 
finish a level with is not the same elevator you start the next level with. It makes 
no sense logically (unless BJ runs to another elevator?), but it shouldn’t affect 
gameplay.
	Speaking of gameplay, in this mapset the par times don’t matter, as I have not changed 
them. That is, except for level 15. In level 15, the par time is the same as the 
default, but I find that doing the level well means finishing well under the part 
time. Speaking of which, the name of level 15 is “Par Time”. So keep that in mind!

	I know some people will write hate mail to me for level 19, as it is a very whacky 
level. So much so that it might hurt your brain. I placed a cross in front of the 
areas you are supposed to push to finish the level, to make things easier. One area 
in that level features a chicken meal, an oil barrel, and a green plant. If you just 
try to take all of the treasures in the room, the game crashes. (You can cheat and 
look it up in the game editor, of course) I did this on purpose. Just to piss you 
off, right? Hehe. This level has two REALLY hard to find secrets. If at any time 
you want to leave all the madness of that level, just go to the nearest exit elevator 
and use it. It’s that easy.
	I have spread out some aardwolf signs on some maps, but they can only be found on 
the hardest to find secrets. (No, there is no 85 steel pushwall maze like one of 
my previous levels.)
	This time, this Sod Mapset Mod will only use SDL. Sorry, folks. 149 Guards just 
aren’t enough. I also blew past Ronwolf’s 699 static object limit, also. 
Extra Note for SHS Easy Mode: I got complaints that my levels were too difficult. 
This version is easier to beat, and has fewer guards which could make a few specific 
parts of a level more visually appealing, that is, no more rooms full of just guards. 
I did this due to complaints and to net my first Dome Award. Childlike, I know. Also, 
since I got an extra look on these levels again, a few minor glitches have been fixed 
on both versions. 
	And as the Ack said for his Archive I, I feel the same for SHS.
This set can be posted anywhere.  I don't care.  This file need not be attached. 
 I don't care.  Use these maps and claim them to be your own.  I don't care.  Manipulate 
them and use them in your own projects without giving me credit.  I don't care.  
Jimmy crack corn.  I don't care.  The only thing I do care about is that you get 
some enjoyment out of playing these maps.  If you do, then you have made my day. 
 If you don't, well... what can I say?  I tried to make them fun.
Take breaks while playing this set or you will get bored.
	If you have questions/comments about SHS, post them at Wolf3d Haven. I really want 
people to give me feedback so I can improve my map making skills! If you see some 
elements of your own mapping style in one of my levels, well, imitation is the ultimate 
flattery! But seriously, if you have a problem, just contact me.
	Without further ado (other than this readme), please go play the Sod, Haven Style, 
abbreviated SHS. Thank you!
Dark_wizzie
11/8/10










Cheats/New Features
-SDL (Along with all typical SDL features, of course.)
-250 ammo max, 200 hp max (Yes, you can med-kit your way to 200% hp. Why not?)
-No damage flash in God Mode 
-Able to see a lot of objects at once (You will never encounter anything becoming 
invisible) 
-Able to hold over 800 static objects 
-Aardwolf signs scattered around some levels, found only in most difficult to find 
secrets…
To activate cheats: Use the Cheats.bat. Press Shift-Alt-Backspace at the same time.

-Tab B - Pick a border color
-Tab K - Give keys. You can pick the key you want.
-Tab S - Allows modification of how much of a slow - motion effect you want.
-Tab N - No Clipping - Note that when using this near the edge of a map, no clipping 
would sometimes not work. 
-Tab P - Take screenshot - Screenshot will appear in the same folder with the exe.

-Tab - Show HP/ammo, etc when in full screen (The view size that doesn’t show the 
HP bar)
-Tab G - God Mode - Press it again for God Mode no damage flash. Note that actually 
both modes have no damage flash.
-Tab D - FPS Counter
-Tab W - Warp Level - Warp to any level on the episode.
-Tab E - Instant Level Finish
-Tab Q - Instant Exit Game - Instantly exits the game without warning or saving.

-Tab X - "Extra Stuff" – What the hell does this do? I don’t know. 
-Tab V - Extra VBLs - Want to lag? Put down more VBLs...Other than that, it doesn't 
do much.
-Tab C - Shows the number enemies, static objects, etc, in the level.
-Tab I - Gives free weapons/ammo/hp/lives/score
-Tab O - Shows map of the level. It also shows where the enemies roughly are in the 
level as well. Great for levels with lots of secrets. 



Level List/Level Notes:
E1L1: Wastelands 1
E1L2: Wastelands 2
E1L3: Spear Worship 
E1L4: The Night Room - Secret Elevator
E1L5: Zealot Temple 
E1L6: Lebensraum – Means “Living Space” in German. Google it for a history lesson.

E1L7: Jail
E1L8: Purple Blues
E1L9: All Alone
E1L10: The Tunnels 
E1L11: Castle Grounds
E1L12: Purple Highs - Secret Elevator 
E1L13: The Riches Below 
E1L14: Round n’ About 
E1L15: Par Time – Easy to beat, but focus on the par time! 
E1L16: Faith in Science 
E1L17: Ramparts 
E1L18: Omniscient
E1L19: Banhammer!!! – [Very Strange]
E1L20: More Serious
E1L21: Window Pain – Made by Ack – [Guest Level]





Difficulty Levels:
Can I Play, Daddy?
I don’t know, can you handle the blood and gore? And don’t forget to take your nappy 
time soon!

Don’t Hurt Me!
Sure, I won’t hurt you! Us Nazis will just sit and let you attack us.

Bring em’ On!
Medium difficulty.

I am Death Incarnate
Even though this is the hardest difficulty, this is the easy version of the mapset, 
so don’t expect super challenger levels. Do expect a challenge if you are not a seasoned 
wolfer, though.

Oh, and the original design of the maps was to start boss levels with a pistol and 
eight rounds, but the coding did not happen.

Until next time, everyone! Auf Wiedersehen!





Credits (In no particular order):
Wlhack – For making the coding possible. 
Ack – For level 21, a lot of mapping inspiration, and his fun readme on Archives 
Part I.
Schabbs – For beta testing and advice, and the incoming Dome Award
iD Software – For making SOD.
Everyone who helped make Chaosedit.
Wolf3d Haven – Because I want to thank it. So sue me.
All the people and the tears, love, and sweat that went into making the SDL exe. 
(I think that is the members of Die Hard Wolfers Forum).
Me.
Anyone else who is asking themselves, 'why the <bleep> didn't Dark_wizzie thank me?'

...and you, obviously, for playing!
“And now, onto the obligatory crap contained in most readmes:
Installation:  I have no idea and you are on your own
In event of finding bugs:  Repeat after me, "ack never told me to play this and I 
am on my own."


[If you helped, in any way, make SHS, and I did not mention your name, please tell 
me so I can give you the credit you deserve!]

End of Readme. (Unless you like reading version notes… go right ahead.)







Compilation Notes:
This mapset is archived in 7zip with the highest archive compression for compatibility 
and space reasons. 7zip is supported by WinRar.
V0.4 - Level 2 glitch fixed, no more columns in a wall. No more guards stuck on wrong 
floor code. Level 4 floor code fixed. Floor code bug fixed on levels 1, 6, 7, 8, 
9, and 18. Bug fixed on level 14. Readme revised.
V0.3 – Initial release.
“v0.22 Pre-Release” – Even more levels made easier to beat on easier difficulty levels. 
Readme updated. A minor aesthetic problem fixed on level 1. Typo in Readme fixed. 
Level 18 made more difficult to beat on easiest difficulty level. Added a new secret 
area on level 1. Level 9 mossy area slightly altered. Level 7 marching routine bug 
fixed. Level 13 bug fixed. New small secret area on level 14.
“V0.21 Pre-Release” -  Level 1 done. Level 2 done. Level 9 done. Level 14 done. Level 
15 glitch fixed. Original level 1 moved to level 20 and re-named. Level 18 had one 
pushwall removed (unnecessary), same with level 1. Readme edited. Level 13 completely 
re-done. Some levels are now easier to beat on easier difficulty levels.
V0.16 Level 7 done. Readme typo fixed.
V0.15 Level 15 done. Level 19 glitch fixed. (Ubermutants rebellion?) 
V0.14 Ack’s level 21 added. Loading problem fixed.
V0.13 Level 1 changed. Even less ghosts. Changed blue walls, so they alternate with 
the Blue Wall 1 and 2 textures. Did similar thing with the mossy bricks part of the 
level. Fixed some walls that seemed out of place. Less pushwalls. (And some other 
changes as well.) Readme updated. Level 3 edited. Level 11 done.
V0.12a Level 10 glitches fixed. Removed a few walls that seemed out of place on level 
10. Level 19 made EVEN MORE obvious to finish. Level 19 got some treasures downgraded 
(too many points!). Level 4 made easier to find the secret elevator. Level 6 done. 
Readme revised. Level 8 done.
V0.1 Level 3 done.
V0.09 Level 4 done. Level 18 glitch fixed, and made easier to beat on easiest difficulty 
mode. Level 19 made even more obvious to finish.
V0.085 Level 19 edited. Made more obvious to finish.
V0.08 Level 19 done. Level 17 edited.
V0.07 Level 16 done.
V0.0655 Level 1 Edited. One odd wall texture fixed. Deaf guard errors fixed. Level 
18 changed. It is now more difficult to beat it, but just barely possible to beat.

V0.065 Spear room turned into 3 blocks length.  Level 17 ammo rechecked.  Level 18 
ammo/ health rechecked up till’ last room.
V0.6 Level 17 done.
V0.05 Level 18 done. Archived in 7zip.
V0.04 Level 13 done. Readme included.
V0.035 Level 10 bug checked.
V0.03 Level 10 done.
V0.02 Level 5 done.
V0.015 Level 1 re-edited. Less ghosts, etc. SDL incorporated.
V0.01 Level 1 done.




















Boy, did you actually read this far into the readme? Then let me tell you a secret! 
The aardwolf signs are at levels 1, 6, and 11. Now go find them! (Don’t look it up 
in the editor… that screws up the fun!)


Oh, and look for the future Wolf3d set that is planned to be released!
Wolfenstein Never-Ending – Sod with much more than 21 levels. Seemingly infinite 
coding changes. Contains a separate story and the whole nine yards. ETA: Not anytime 
soon

Now, this time, I really mean it, end of read me. :) 
  
