First of all i want to thank you for downloading WOLFWING: Third Reich Rising. This 
is a
full actionpacked game which need 3d skills. I suggest playing wolfenstein 3d too. 
off with
the talking, heres the game:

PS: Please don't mind my bad english if it occurs.

* 5 May 1986 *

31 years after the second world war the allied force thought there isn't someone 
left who 
are trying to revive the third reich. all searches for a hidden castle we're stopped. 
they
we're searching in odd and old castles. they only found some nazi corpses, nazi flags 
and
some paperwork with events from the second world war written in it. they collected 
all the
files they found, and put it in a large village house. it was protected with several 
guards 
because they thought there might be poeple trying to attain it. villagers still we're 
working in 
the house. they made almost all the castle's crumble and fall apart. 1 castle remained 
which was 
nearby the village. they thought it wasn't of use. suddenly they hear a weird sound 
from 
the castle. some guards we're looking inside, but never returned for report. then 
suddenly
a couple of guards walk outside the castle. more then they send  in. then the guards 
shot
some of the allied forces. then began to steal all archives from the villager house. 
they 
shot all people inside and then began taking over the village. that is    

B.J (you) was sitting at home watching tv. His wife was about to go to her work. 
B.J was
gonna take a piss and left the door unlocked. you suddenly heard a shot. you zip 
you gulp 
and picked up your gun under the sink. right after you picked up your gun the door 
opened.
you heard: ''hans! ich bin in zu hause da''. the door opens and you see a weak german 
guard
with a gun in his hands. you shot him right in the head and he falls death on the 
floor. 
Be prepared, because your adventure begins...

Weapons:

Knife: for stabbing. it's a silent weapon. use this as a last resort.
Luger 39: normal gun that doesnt have rapid fire but has a powerfull shot.
Strassgaffer 45: a rapid fire machine gun. good for crowded areas and multiple enemies.

Chaingun: the most powerfull weapon in the game. a chaingun that eats ammo
like crazy.

Enemies:

Normal guard: weak, takes like 2 shots to kill him. they are dangerous in groups 
though.
Officer: a high ranked soldier. they are fast so dont go running and shooting saying 
'BANZAI'!
because before you know youre out of ammo and the officer shot you.
SS: Hitler's top men. they are dangerous, especially in groups.
Dog: he bites... hard...
Chaingunner: * no information avaible * find out...

Bosses:

Commander Lusthaffe: a mean old bastard. he leads the administration. he
can be found at lvl 3.

General Count Richthoffen von Arnslaught: big, mad and full of torture. you don't 
want to
meet this guy in a dark passage... he can be found at lvl 5.

Baldigar: a mean bald psygopath. he has been kept in a dungeon just for the case 
he 
escapes. he has been given a rocket launcher for you! he can be found at lvl 7.

General Wolfwing: he's the brain behind operation WOLFWING. good luck stopping
his plan for the third world war! he can be found at lvl 10.

Levels:

* level 1: The Village *
* level 2: Office U.S. *
* level 3: Commander Lusthaffe (boss) *
* level 4: Bloodbath *
* level 5: No mercy (boss) *
* level 6: Great expetations *
* level 7: Mutants on strike (boss) *
* level 8: Back to the wildernis *
* level 9: High officers *
* level 10: WOLFWING (final boss) *
* level 11: Secret: Tomas Weilings final level *

Lvl 1: you just saw that your whole village has been murdered. shoot the bastards 
who did
this! then enter the castle and find out whats happening.

Lvl 2: this is the administration area. all files found about the second world war 
are also stored
here. 

Lvl 3: There he is, the leader of the administration. be prepared for a intense fight 
and try
to overpower Commander Lusthaffe!

Lvl 4: as the title said, there is gonna shower alot of blood on this lvl. before 
you know it,
your overrun by guards. dont use your brains, use your brawns!

Lvl 5: This is a tough battle in the game. when you enter the room, you will 
meet general counthoffen. but when you shoot you hear voices of guards. not just 
a 
few guards, but a horde! there is ammo at the start, but it maybe isnt enough...

good luck, you need it.

Lvl 6: This lvl belongs to Tomas Weiling (look credits) because i was to lazy to 
make one :P.
but other than that, its a fine lvl that needs a little brain. 

Lvl 7: The psycho monster, Baldigar. he isn't alone in his dungeon. his horde of 
mutants
are there too! some guards survived the mutants wich one of them is commander 
Bollifastrafos, who is as mean as Ergandstruff. good luck with both!

Lvl 8: you need to go to the other castle, go through the wildernis and meet your 
faith.

Lvl 9: Before the final battle there are more guys you must meet... these guys are 
high 
ranked by the general. this room used to be Wolfwing's room, but he thought its unsafe.

and he was right. anyway prepare for some high ranked slaughter. 

Lvl 10: Finally, the ultimate face off, the climax of the game, the finishing touch: 

You vs. Wolfwing. 

Lvl 11: Face general eisenwolf in Tomas weilings game!

I hope you enjoy Wolfwing. all credits has been writtin in credits.

~ keep wolfing

- me 