Orb of Dilaaria
Version 1.00

A Wolfenstein 3-D Total Conversion Mod
Setup
Simply double click ORB.EXE to start the game. It runs just like the original Wolfenstein 
3-D. It has been optimized in hopes of providing an enjoyable experience on a variety 
of computers. By default, all options except "Show FPS" are enabled. If the game 
performs poorly, try disabling "Shading/Fog" first, then try disabling "Sky", "Clouds", 
and "Textured Flats" one at a time until gameplay is acceptable.
Sound
If you have Windows 2000 or XP, the Adlib sound effects and music won't run properly. 
In order to hear these, you'll need to use {VDMSound 2.1 Public Beta} (2.0.4 should 
also work).

I had initially also recommended {DOSBox}, however this program has some problems 
when using projectile weapons. This was checked with both DOSBox 0.63 and 0.65. Future 
versions may work, but it'll be a gamble.
New Quick Keys
  * F11 - Display the current map's name 
  * F12 - Take a screenshot 
GAMEERR.EXE
Should the game happen to crash, it will produce a file called GAMEERR.TXT. This 
EXE file simply translates the given error code into English. Hopefully you will 
not need to worry about this file.
Story
The Land of the Seven Kingdoms was once the peaceful creation of Eilior, the Great 
Being. There were nine lesser beings who served as council to Eilior called the Nonacyclus. 
Among them was Wersin, the deceiver, who left the council to descend upon the world 
thus shattering its peace. For protection, Eilior gave man the gift of the Orb, which 
strengthens the weapons of the Seven Kingdoms. However, as a weapon becomes further 
from the Orb, its power wanes. The elders of the Seven Kingdoms met and declared 
that the Orb be kept within the castle of Dilaaria, since it was nearest the center 
of all the lands. However, this left the southern-most land, Drami-on, without the 
power of the Orb.

The dark clouds of war covered the land as Wersin's henchmen swarmed the countryside. 
For many years the Seven Kingdoms have kept the lands safe, but recent sightings 
suggest that a great army is rising against them from the south. According to scouts, 
Wersin has ravaged the lands of Drami-on and stolen their enchanted weapons to equip 
a massive army.

As a royal guard for King Hylorn, ruler of Dilaaria, you have been ordered to guard 
the Orb's chamber. From deep within the castle, you only hear muffled sounds as they 
echo down the hallways toward you. One voice cuts through the jumbled mess: "The 
enemy approaches!" You listen as the soft murmur rises to the panicked chatter of 
war. The Dark Army of Wersin has arrived.

Torches dot the fields around the castle. Soon arrows are loosed from all directions. 
Ladders spring from the ground and the twisted deformities of the Dark Army have 
soon breached the wall. The knights of the Seven Kingdoms fight valiantly but to 
no avail. You prepare for battle as you hear the main gates burst open.

Thirty or more demonic beings charge down the hallway toward you and the other royal 
guards. You are soon surrounded by them. The ten of you are no match for the constant 
flow of demons and the other guards soon fall dead at your side. A sharp blow to 
the back of your head sends you sprawling to the ground. As your vision begins to 
dim, you see the demons smash the door leading to the Orb's chamber...

You awake surprised to see that you're still alive. You look around and discover 
that you are in a small dungeon cell littered with bones and fleshy debris. This 
can only mean that you are trapped deep within Zaehylos' dungeon, the vile prison 
of the ancient stories. Many heroes have been held inside its walls, but none have 
escaped.

You try to stand, but your head is still spinning with pain and you fall upon a pile 
of bones. A strange snort echoes outside the door to your cell. Ignoring the pain, 
you stand again and grab a broken bone from the floor. Within seconds there is a 
snarl right outside the door and you hide in a darkened corner of your cell. The 
door slides open and a foot soldier enters the room. You lunge at it, knocking it 
to the ground. A surprised scream pierces your ears as you shove the shattered end 
of the bone into its body.

Convinced that it is dead, you grab its mace and prepare for what lies ahead. If 
you can't escape, at least you'll leave the mark of your presence in the hearts of 
your enemies...
Thanks
id Software - releasing Wolfenstein 3-D and then the source

Team: 
  * Majik Monkee - tweaking boss and guard graphics 
  * Ringman - most of the walls, floors, ceilings, and object graphics are his original 
work 
  * Ack - map maker extraordinaire plus some graphic and sound offerings 
  * Arielus - testing, perspective, and suggestions 
  * AReyeP - testing, perspective, and suggestions 
  * Liza Walley - testing, perspective, and suggestions 
  * Mirela - providing the text and voice for the monks 
Everyone was a tremendous help. I could not have hoped for a better team!

Additional graphic, sound, and inspirational sources: 
  * The ZDoom Monster Resource WAD 
  * Doom, Doom II, Quake by id Software 
  * Heretic, Hexen by Ravensoft 
  * Blood by Monolith 
  * Witchaven by Capstone 
  * PowerSlave by Lobotomy Software 
  * Arthur's Quest by ValuSoft 
Contact Information
website: {http://winwolf3d.dugtrio17.com/}
email: {winwolf3d@fastmail.us} 
Version History
  * Version 1.0 - June 11, 2006 
  * Version 1.1 - June 12, 2006
    * Games saved while a pushwall is in motion will reload correctly in all situations 
now  
  * Version 1.2 - July 7, 2006 
    * No more "Hall of Mirrors" effect when the parallaxing sky is disabled on some 
levels 
    * Player can no longer escape the sentries by staying in corners 
    * Tweaked shading a bit (no more full brightness in the distance, but a bit brighter) 

    * Changed Paishkyn's unshaded attack frame 
    * Fixed upper bound for map amount for various checks 
    * Hopefully stopped game from bombing if the message text doesn't load correctly 

    * Destroyed walls now receive a floor code when loading a savegame 
    * 200B errors now report the map x and y of the error  
  * Version 1.3 - July 10, 2006 
    * Added dot beside 's' in score on highscore screen 
    * Fixed maps 33 and 63 
    * Wersin graphics were enhanced   