First the good news! Wolfcool is finally here! Now for the bad
news, * I have recently discovered that this vswap.wl1 file will
not work with Wolf3d v1.4! So if you want me to upload a older
version of Wolf3d like v1.0 with a set of modified maps that I got
from a friend then let me know. If you are a frequent visitor to
wuarchive.wustl.edu, then you can leave a message in the request
directory of pub/msdos_uploads/requests.

The next part is the same old wolfcool.txt file with a some
corrections if you want to read it.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
9-10-93

DUE TO CIRCUMSTANCES BEYOND MY CONTROL, THIS FILE SHOULD BE READY
SOMETIME NEXT WEEK SO IF YOU ARE INTERESTED PLEASE KEEP A EYE OUT
FOR IT! 9-13-93 TO 9-17-93.  


By now you have probably heard of the bad news. The release of Doom
has been delayed until December. What to do? What to do? Well,
here's the answer for you shareware Wolf3D diehards! I have made
numerous changes to the vswap.wl1! (* NOTE: I have only tested this
file with Wolf3d v1.0 and Wolf3d v1.1, so if there are any
incompatibilities with version 1.3, 1.4, or later, don't blame me!)

WALLS:

- the walls of the original has been replaced by: walls from Spear
of Destiny (pebble, marble, new Hitler picture, slimy, etc. type
walls)

- some of the walls now feature pictures of (SF2) Guile and Mel
Bison

- a few of the walls have been replaced by pictures of HK popstars
(For example, Rosamund Kwan, Ellen Chan, Leslie Cheung, Andy Lau,
etc.)

- for some fun, I also replaced some walls with pictures of Batman,
the Joker, Max Headroom, Bud girls, etc.

- the boring cyan steel doors have been replaced by robotic type
looking doors that look like doors found on Cybertron
(Transformer's series) 

OBJECTS:

- many of the objects like the tables and skeleton cages have been
replaced by X-Wing fighters, Storm troopers, stereos, robots, white
ss guards, Fast Lane Jones from the popular Sierra game series, a
doctor,  hitler robot (note the graphics suck on this one and the
original boss guard (Hans) because I have no more time to repaint
it due to my upcoming midterm exams), and many other humorous
stuff.  

NOTE: I would like to take this time to thank the person who
uploaded WOLF316.ZIP because I imported about 25% of my replacement
graphics for the objects from this file

GUARDS:

- the boring old nazi guard has been replaced with a robot in
military uniform that spits fire

- the original blue boss guard (Hans) has been replaced with a big
fat brown uniformed SS guard that shoots at you with two different
types of machine guns

- for the above two types of guards their death is now represented
with a pile of bones instead of a corpse

NOTE: I would like to take this time to thank the person who
uploaded WOLF316.ZIP because I imported the graphics for this
character from his file.

- the dog and the blue guard has been replaced with AWESOME and
BLOODY graphics from the GRAPHICS PATCH 3dgory.zip 

NOTE: I would like to thank this guy too because his graphics were
way cool! 

WEAPONS:

- the big machine gun has been replaced with a laser rifle

* Remember to rename your original "vswap.wl1" file to another name
like "oldvswap.wl1" before copying this file to your directory if
you want to be able to save your old Wolf graphics for some reason.

Any imported graphics in this game are trademarks of their
respective companies. Please excuse me for any grammar errors in
this document. I am writing this as I am watching tv. I think I
have taken up enough of your time. Remember to distribute this
patch to your friends! Have FUN!


                                                                  
                                                       -Milton Lee
