NOAHPAK - THE INVASION

by Sam Feichter (AstroCreep)
contact AstroCreep @ reddevilsplinter@icloud.com, or you can find me on ZDoom Forums, 
DieHard Wolfers, ECWolf Forums, or Wolf3D Haven (username for all 4 is AstroCreep)


3/20/15

[Story]
It was a very rough few days for Noah.  Tending to all of those anxious animals was 
starting to
wear down on him.  After building himself a pimp new pad, Noah was ready to take 
a very well
deserved nap.  However, just as he was about to doze off, he hears a strange noise 
in the distance...
Suddenly!  A light!  Right over the mountains and getting closer!  Before Noah knows 
it, bright beams fill
his house and yard!  Before long the entire yard is infested with ugly weird looking 
beings!!!!!

They seem to be wearing some strange metallic clothing, and are carrying mysterious 
magical weapons...
Noah looks out his window and is appalled!!!!  Some of them seem to be sodomizing 
the livestock with
metallic doo-dads!  For what?!?  WHY?!?!  
What is this blasphemy!!!!  God cursed the planet with the flood to rid the world 
of monstrosities
such as these!!!!  This has to be the work of the Devil.

Suddenly, one pops up outside the window!!!!  Startled, Noah grabs the first thing 
he can - a handful of
animal feed!  He desperatley throws it in its ugly face.  Surprisingly, it melts 
away and the creature bolts
into the distance!

Noah now knows what he must do.  Armed with his slingshot, he is not going to let 
any evil creature take advantage
of this clean slate of a world!!!  This is God's world and as God's soldier it is 
upon Noah to rid the world
of these weird beings and finally get that gosh-darned nap!!!!

[Background]
This monstrosity is a mod for Super 3D Noah's Ark!  As far as I know, this is the 
first of its kind - an ECWolf mod for
S3DNA, enhanced with new enemies, weapons, and lots of other fun stuff!  This mod 
started out as a simple level mod for
S3DNA and slowly morphed into this slightly fucked up adventure about Noah cleansing 
the Earth of evil blasphemous sheep-fucking aliens!
The point of this game is to rid your poorly-planned, over-sized house (It was built 
from the remnants of the Ark, you know...why do you think
there are no ruins?  Duh) of aliens, and then infiltrate their ship to destroy the 
remaining invasion forces and the battle computer! However,
the animals from the ark haven't moved far from where the ark landed yet, and they 
are pretty freaked out by
all this invasion stuff, so you must feed them to distract them from this anarchy!

This mod requires at least ECWolf 1.3.1, although I highly recommend using the dev 
versions, as they include more features and fixes.  This mod WILL NOT work with
Wolfenstein 3D, but luckily S3DNA has been recently revived on the internet, which 
can be purchased for about
$7 (Well worth it to play this shit heap!) 

[The Invaders]
These are the ugly bastards that have come to rain on God's parade.  The only thing

these creatures will understand is a deadly handful of corrosive feed!

Grunt - These little green shits are the main invasion force, aka bullet bait.  They 

carry laser rifles, and have no problems zapping you out of the picture to rape this 
world of resources!

Captain - These seem to be the commanders on the battlefield.  They are much bigger 
and faster than their underlings,
and have heavy duty laser cannons ready to blast you to smithereens!

Troll - Bioengineered by the invaders, these things live only to eat.  To make things 
worse, they puke up plasma
balls.  Joy.

Bloboid - A native species of the invaders' home planet.  These things could be the 
worst thing to ever be spawned
in the deepest bowels of the universe.  Ugly, smelly green piles of flesh eating 
snot.  The worst part is, they split into
two smaller Bloboids when they are killed!  The only way to destroy them is to keep 
smashing them until they are liquid piles of goo!

Alien Overlord - These things are the planners of the attack.  They weren't expecting 
heavy
resistance, so not many of the master race came along for this trip, but the ones 
who did
are the most battle hardened warriors this side of the Milky Way! Not only are they 
heavily trained,
but they also wield heavy weapons that pummel you with a barrage of laser balls! 
These guys guard key areas of the ship,
including the main entrance into the ship, and the main battle computer.

[NEW WEAPONS]
Laser Rifle - The aliens wield a strange weapon.  It seems that it was designed for 
nothing except destruction.  When fired, it
shoots a strange red glowing light that smites anything in its path!  Not near as 
awesome as God's power, but for Noah, it may be 
the best chance he has against growing numbers of aliens!  Self recharges and has 
a stun setting, so you can 

Laser Cannon - This looks like a much more powerful weapon.  Shoots massive balls 
of bright energy.  These babies can take out an Overlord
in just a few shots!  However, it seems that not many of these babies are around...


[OTHER SHIT]
	- Enhanced movement and graphics.  Your weapon bobs!  The levels have brightness 
levels!  Even simulated outdoor areas!  Far out!
	- Music from various 90's video games! [MIDIs included.  YouTube-ripped OGG pack 
can be downloaded seperatley.)
	- Giorgio Tsoukalos boasting how he told us so!
	
[CREDITS]
Wolfenstein 3D / Wolf Engine by iD Software
Super 3D Noah's Ark by Wisdom Tree
ECWolf by Braden Obrzut (Blzut3)
Alien Sprites from Corridor 7 by Capstone Software
Alien Sounds from Blake Stone (JAM Software/Apogee) and Chex Quest (Digital Café)

Laser Rifle sprites from Astrostein (PC) - originally by Laz Rojas, converted by 
Bruce Ryder
Tech sprites from Astrostein (PC) originally by Laz Rojas, converted by Bruce Ryder

Laser Cannon sprites from Blake Stone by JAM Productions and Apogee Software
Extra walls and floors from Blake Stone by JAM Productions and Apogee Software
Trees from WolfenDoom by Laz Rojas, except for the little tree, which is from the 
Tech Demo by Executor.
Prisoners originally by Ian Summerfield, adapted and edited by AstroCreep
Extra Music from Zombies Ate My Neighbors, After Burner II, Super Metroid, Battletoads 
and Double Dragon, Earthworm Jim, Contra III, and Mortal Kombat (Sega Genesis)
All levels by AstroCreep (Sam Feichter)
Sheep gore by AstroCreep, all other gore from Brutal Doom (not sure of original source)

Sheep Easter Egg by AstroCreep
Utilities used - MS Paint, Photoshop CS6, SLADE, WDC, Speedway Coffee, strawberry 
Crush, Killian's, and Reese's minis

[TRACKLIST]

aftmu.ogg - "After Burner" 2nd mission music from "After Burner II" by Sega
bddstag1.ogg - Level 1 music from "Battletoads and Double Dragon: The Ultimate Team" 
by RARE
bddstag2.ogg - Level 2 music from "Battletoads and Double Dragon: The Ultimate Team" 
by RARE
brinstar.ogg - "Upper Brinstar(Green Jungle)" from "Super Metroid" by Nintendo
contra1.ogg - "Ground Zero" from "Contra III: The Alien Wars" by Konami
drtongue.ogg - "Dr Tongue's Castle of Terror" from "Zombies Ate My Neighbors" by 
LucasArts
junkcity.ogg - "New Junk City" from "Earthworm Jim" by Shiny Entertainment
maridia.ogg - "Maridia (2nd)" from "Super Metroid" by Nintendo
norfair.ogg - "Upper Norfair" from "Super Metroid" by Nintendo
pyramid.ogg - "Pyramid of Fear" from "Zombies Ate My Neighbors" by LucasArts
tentacle.ogg - "Mars Needs Cheerleaders" from "Zombies Ate My Neighbors" by LucasArts

thepit.ogg - "The Pit (Arcade)" from "Mortal Kombat" by Midway
zombie.ogg - "Zombie Panic" from "Zombies Ate My Neighbors" by LucasArts
evening.ogg - "Evening of the Undead" from "Zombies Ate My Neighbors" by LucasArts



[MUSIC CREDITS]

Original Developers - Sega, Nintendo, Konami, RARE, LucasArts, Shiny Entertainment 
and Midway
Ripped by Sam Feichter (AstroCreep)
Cleaned and OGG'd with FL Studio 11
Special thanks to YouTube, for hosting these videos, and Anything2MP3.com for easy 
YouTube rips


[DISCLAIMER]

This is a mod of Super 3D Noah's Ark.  That being said, unlike S3DNA, this mod is

NOT AT ALL FAMILY-FRIENDLY.  And with everyone being so damn touchy these days, 

I must point out the fact that I do not mean to offend anyone with the subject matter 
of
this mod, I only wished to create a mod for a little known game.

All original material by Sam Feichter (AstroCreep) may be used in any
modification or patch anyone would like to create, provided credit is given.
Any material used that was created by other people must be credited to the original 
author.
If I missed anybody, feel free to notify me so I can update the credits.

UPDATE V2 9/13/19

I have finally gotten around to updating this to the new XLAT format.  I have also

Removed all of the "replace" functions and defined all actors in the XLAT.  This 
will
Ensure that this mod continues working with future versions of ECWolf for the time 
being.
I am also working on a slightly updated version of this that will use LZWolf and 
take
Advantage of the extended features, such as parallax skies and such.  Still brainstorming

Ideas so this will be coming at a later date.
