                                 Welcome to:
                            ** CASTLE BISMARK **
             
     21 new levels for ID's Spear of Destiny! Commercial game required.
  The keys may be hidden behind Secret Doors. The levels are large and
  I don't think the pars can be beaten. Give it your best shot! Most 
  floors are totally new. The other 1 or 2 have been expanded and altered.
  Play without cheat keys - All levels are beatable. All levels are play
  tested. Dont give up. Yes Virgina, there is a way out!! Seceret floors
  are on the same levels as before. Save often and you just may survive.
  
  Special Thanks to all the crew at ID for such a kick ass game!!
  Thanks also to Bill Kirby,Dave Huntoon,Bryan Baker and Matt Gruson
  for the fantastic mapeditor!

  Last but not least, a Very Special Thanks to everyone at G.T.K. Software
  in Cleveland for thier patience and support while I slowly went mad re-
  writing the floor files. Support your locals!

  I hope everyone enjoys these new levels. They are free and will never cost
  you anything! Feel free to upload anywhere. Just leave this read me attached.

  NOW LETS GO BLAST SOME CREEPS !!!

                    
   INSTALL:


   (Please read CARDWARE at the end)
   
                           
   If you dont know how to install these levels, read on!


          Go to your Spear directory,and rename gamemaps.sod and your maphead.sod

          to gamemaps.bak and maphead.bak - you can always rename them back to their

          original state later.
          Example. C:\Spear> rename gamemaps.sod gamemaps.bak {Enter} repeat for

          maphead.sod.
          Then go to the directory where these new files are, and type at the prompt;

          Copy gamemaps.sod C:\ spear {Enter}
          Copy maphead.sod C:\ spear {Enter}
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                         CARDWARE:
                                                                                 
                Here's the deal; If you enjoyed these new levels (even just a little) 
I would
      appreciate it if you send a postcard to the address below. Please mention how 

      you obtained CASTLE BISMARK, any comments and if you would have any desire 
for 
      even more levels. I will do my best to respond to all with return address and

      or phone and fax. It will be interesting to see how far this BBS travels.
    
          CASTLE BISMARK
        2164 Bellfield Ave.
           Cleveland, Ohio
                      44106
                                      PLEASE READ ON!                            
                                                                                 
                                                                       

                                                              
                                                                                 
                                                                            P.S. 
Hi Marian!                                                                       
                                                                                 
       From one Aries to another!                                                
                                                                                 
                                         Darkstar                                
                For more Wolf try,                                               
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                  NWS BBS                        
                                                     [216]237-0167  Sysop: Marian 
Prucha                                                                           
                                                                         This is 
a very friendly board !!!!!!                                                     
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                             NOW GO KILL SOMETHING!!!!!