                                                             1945 The End Of The Third Reich Phase 2 Final





Thank you for downloading 1945 The End Of The Third Riech my first ever successful Wolfenstein 3D addon.In the past I had a couple to few attempts to make an addon but either I never had the time, patiance or lack of skills or it would end up screwed because I did something wrong and I lost my work but for the first time ever I have made the time and put alot of thought and effort into making it.
You may come across some bugs in the game but Ive played through and ammended as much as I could. The code editing is my weak spot, I tried my very best to encode all the changes this mod was intended to have but one fault is disabling the Boss's Death Cam I don't know how to make Death Cam bosses drop a key so I put a gold key by the exit, but just because you can coward your way from some bosses doesn't mean do. The Par times is another defect, I tried to change the Par times and End level intermissions to suit this mod but hit a few errors so ignor some of the End level intermissions. Other than that I think I have achieved my goal to create good levels from scratch, alot of thought went into these levels, years of practice soon paid off.


                                                                  Storyline

It's the year 1945, the war has been going on for nearly six years.The nazis fight to keep Hitler's twisted dream alive to take over the world. The allies sent out a polish guy named BJ Blazcowicks AKA The One Man Army.
You BJ Blazcowicks grandson of the man who brought the first world war down who has fought and accomplished many missions. You are the allies only hope if you can't bring the third riech to an end then no one can. You BJ Blazcowicks take out your pistol with 8 bullets and your trusty knife and get flown to a nearby open forset by some castle in a helecopter.It's time to go in there and bring an end to the third riech.



                                                           1945 The End Of The Third Riech features 




One seamless episode of 60 all new large action packed epic levels.
A bigger selection of different wall textures from Spear Of Destiny original and Spear Destiny missions 2 and three and wall textures from other addons plus some new wall textures created by me plus many of the original Wolfenstein textures and good original Wolfenstein substitute textures. 
New props from Spear Of Destiny original and Spear Of Destiny missions 2 and 3 and other addons and some original Wolfenstein sprites and substitute originals.
New guards and bosses from Spear Of Destiny and other addons and original Wolfenstein. 
New weapons some original Wolfenstein weapons and some from other addons.
New items from other addons and original Wolfenstein.
New sounds from other addons and Spear Of Destiny and original Wolfenstein.
All new VGA screen graphics and a brand new status bar.
25 amo crate added.
Changed ceiling colours to fit in with the level location.
Multiple floor colours some levels have a different floor colour to others to fit in with the level location.
Boss action replays removed.
All new epic music from verious origins and games in midi format or some new imported music and some original Wolfenstein music.

Version 3.0
I decided to have another go at polishing End of the Third Reich up to enhance the quality and experience 

New features in version 3.0
Many levels have been changed, Secret areas have been polished with verious ways to hint small secrets including wall decoration and other subtle hints, Super Secret areas and access to Secret levels can be well hidden though, one hint is to look where one wouldn't expect to find a Secret area. Plus other general mapping errors and skill have been polished up from what I have learned and built on over the years.
2 extra keys ( unfortunatly they don't show up on the status bar as I didn't quite understand the tutorial, but they are just like the extra keys in Hex Edited mods like Armageddon and Schabb's 2000 ), Super Secret rooms or areas require a bronze key and some of the later levels require you to find a red copper key in addition to the gold and silver keys.
An attempt to change the screen colours ( unfortunatly that didn't go quite to plan, theres still a cyan splodge where the Status bar is and the End level screen is still cyan).
Some of the music has been changed as some of the music previously didn't quite fit the mod, that problem has been ammended thanks to Adam Biser's IMF Creator ( a dead simple alternative to Darkone's IMF tools, thanks to Lingyan203 for telling me about Adan Biser's IMF Creator ) I can now have all the music to my exact liking which is the main reason I decided to release this new version of End Of The Third Reich. I also had a go at composing some of my own music ( hope you like my own music creations ).
Some new vswap graphics also included. 





A few bugs to be aware of

As stated above I had an attempt to change the border and screen colour from cyan to grey, unfortunatly half of the screen is still cyan, at least I tried.
Also as stated above some of the End level intermissions are incorrect, there is an explanation as stated above. 
The 2 new keys don't have icons on the status bar but they function in the same way in Hex edited mods like Barry Christian's Armageddon and Gary Ragland's Schabb's 2000. 
I also experienced that certain levels in this version dump out at random times if played without Dosbox ( in particular level 3 ). I don't understand why this happens as I have done everything correctly, but it seems to run smoothly in Dosbox at an acceptable speed as it's EXE changes are mainly just core essentials.






Level names





Level 1 Open forest and Castle gates

You start off in an open forest area outside the gates of the castle where an outdoor cell is located with prisners which are part of some twisted experiment.


Level 2 Castle entrance

The location of the first floor of the Castle. There are hallways and many different rooms and each room is guarded with nazi soldiers.

Levels 3-5 Lower Castle levels

The lower floors of the Castle locating large hallways passageways storage rooms cells and many areas guarded at times. 

Level 5 Boss 1 

Here you will meet Hanz Gross guarding the key to the elevator to the upper castle levels.Defeat him and proceed to the upper castle.

Level 6 Tunnel 1

Here is a tunnel access that connects the lower castle and upper castle floors a place for bomb shelter and also a waste sewer with slime covered walls and also controll of the castle working.To get to the upper castle you must get throuth the tunnel area and defeat the guards.This level is a bit like the castle but with slimmy stone and brick walls and a place for the guards guarding the place to live.

Levels 7-10 Upper castle levels

These levels are of simler design and theme to the lower castle levels. These are the upper floors of the castle with long passages hallways and different rooms.Level 8 is the divide where you cross a divide to get across to the other part of the castle located on a mountain.

Level 10 Boss 2 

Here you will meet an Uberguard new to this version 3.0, he has a combined chaingun with a built in missile launcher  

Level 11 Tunnel 2

Here is another tunnel access built into a mountain the main controll point of the castle towers controling the water access and is the waste desposal sewers of the castle towers guards guading the tunnel access.You must go through the tunnel access to get to the castle towers.

Levels 12-15 Castle tower

You made it to the castle tower  these levels are simler to the castle levels introducing more new walls and large rooms at times slightly more challenging to previous levels well guarded.

Level 15 Boss 3

Here you will meet Hanz Gross again, 

Level 16 Tunnel 3

This tunnel access is the access to the tower peek built right under a mountain as an access to the tower peek and is the controll point to the tower peek controlling water access to the tower peek and is the waste disposal and sewer to the tower peek.

Level 17 Tower Peek

Located on the peek of a mountain is the tower peek. Here you can get the best view from down below you.

Level 18 Office Level

After taking the elevator on the tower peek you end up on the office floor.This is an office area where all the paper work and conferences take place.This level is guarded with just officers.

Level 19 Dungeon Level

Below the tower is a dungeon floor a big cell where prisners are taken after being stored in the small cells in the castle and lower tower level if they make it out alive.

Level 20 Boss 4 

This is the very top of the tower where you face another Uberguard guarding the key to the bunker levels

Levels 21-25 Lower Nazi millitary base

These are the lower Nazi millitary base levels this is where things start to look different built out of rock and brick to make a strong bond this is the nazi hedquaters milletery base. Things really start to get more challanging, some levels can be heavily guarded at times so be carefull.

Level 25 Boss 5 

Another battle with Hanz Gross awaits you.

Levels 26-29 Upper Nazi millitary base

The upper floors of the millertery base Levels 26 and 28 are home to the grey uniformed SS guards guarded with SS guards. Some parts of levels can be packed with SS guards.

Level 29 Boss 6

This is it here you are on Hitler's floor where you will face Hitler himself this is hitler's home. Nobody has ever made it out alive defeat Hitler and you have nearly brought the third riech crashing down.

Level 30 Castle escape

You have nearly made it right outside at the top of the castle its night time.There are some guards guarding the exit and a forest and cave and mountain and the end of the castle.Kill the nazi's and escape through the locked door.

Levels 31-35 Laberatory levels

Just when you thought your mission was over it had only just started when you went to escape the castle from the peek and take what you thought was an exit there was another building where you heard screams of touture.You must go in there and bring down Scabb's and his mutant army as no nazi life form must exist as the sooner there gone the better.These levels are clinical in style with white and grey panelled walls and hospital beds and lots of bones and blood on the floors and the mutants make their first apperance.These laberatory levels are where the prisners are taken if they make it out alive they are either killed and or become part of Scabb's twisted experiment.

Level 35 Boss 7

Here you will face an Ubermutant one of Scabb's giant creations.This is where Ubermutant's are created and this is Ubermutant's home and there are reguler mutants here as well.Kill him and then proceed to the upper laberatory floors.

Levels 36-40 Upper Laberatory floors
Similar to the lower Laberatory levels, this is where the mutant's are created and Dr Scabb's live here. This is what happens to the prisoners they are turned into mutants.

Level's 41-45 Caverns of the unknown
Your mission isn't over yet, after defeating the twisted Dr Scabb's you leave his diabolical laberatoy home and come across the mysterious Cavern's of the unknown, there called the Cavern's of the unknown because no human has ever encountered them. You are the first person to have made it this far, you must go into the Cavern's of the unknown and prepare yourself for what may lie within.

Level 45 Boss 9
So far you have discovered more mutant's within the Cavern's of the unknown, here you will have to battle with another Ubermutant.

Level 46 Cavern tunnels
A secret tunnel, you must go through this tunnel and find out where it takes you.

Level's 47-49 2nd part of the Caverns of the unknown
The end of the tunnel takes you to the 2nd part of the Cavern's of the unknown, the 2nd part of what you believe is the mutant's habitat. You must find out what's at the other end.

Level 50 The Lair of the unknown
Nobody really knows about what terrors may lurk here, your the only person who's about to find out.

Secret levels Level's 59-60
These secret levels are located at verious locations within the castle units. An opertunity to get extra treasure, access to these levels are quite well hidden

Super secret levels Level's 51-57
Super secret levels are or tend to be very well hidden, see if you can work out how to get to them. More opertunities to get extra treasures and dig for gold.

Ultra secret level
See if you can find it. If you can get there there will be a real reward for you up there. 








Credits and acknolidgements
First of all and most importantly thanks to all the guys at Id software and apogee for Wolfenstein 3D and it's sequal or prequal Spear of Destiny, and thanks to Form Gen Corperation for the 2 Spear addons Return to danger and Ultimate. Thanks to them also for relesing editing programs such as Mapedit level designer and Wolfedit vswap graphics editor, without those programs not even Form Gen's Spear addons would have existed. But also thanks to them guys for relesing the Wolfenstein source code. Thanks also to people like Florian Stohr for Flo Edit and Chaos software for the fantastic Chaos edit, Adam Biser for IMF creator, all these editing programs made this Wolfenstein Mod what it is.

I would now like to give further credit to a few more people, BJ Rowan for his substitute grey stone wall set, blue stone wall set, wood pannel wall set, red brick wall set, silver steel plate wall set, slimmy grey stone wall set, the light grey lab tiles wall set, the dark grey stone wall, the slimmy green brick wall, the complete set of doors, the silver suit of armor?, the silver cage, the pile of skulls and bones, substitute silver key, substitute first aid kit, grey ammo clip, MP40 item and images, silver chaingun item and images, substitute cross? chalace, jewls and crown, substitute ammo crate, grey uniformed SS, bloody hospital bed, hospital bed, guard barking height, dog bark, Goodentag, hanz fall, mutant fall, officer fall, guard fall, guard cry. Form Gen Corp for dark grey marble wall, grey rock wall, yellow pannel wall, substitute water, light bulb. Id software for original wolfenstein and Spear wall textures, props, characters and sounds and music. Ken O Brian fow substitute wall textures. Laz Rogers for dark brown brick wall ( what about the golden brown stone? ), possibly props but credit goes to him for weapon sounds and door sounds. Nate Smith for props and some sounds. Barry Christian for green stone wall, cloudy landscape. Paal Olstad for the platnimn marble wall. Not sure who created the check tiles wall or the grey x wall, Garry Ragland?. Luke Strauman for the blue slimmy stone. MCS for the forest wall which I slightly modified. Kuki for the end boss. WSJ for some of the sounds such as the guard falls and screams. Reactor for his midi and IMF music packs of carefully selected music and thanks to whoever converted the imported songs to IMF. Also thanks to Adam Biser for IMF creator ( thanks also to Lingyan203 for telling me about this program ), thanks also to Ben Blaufarb for the Brown Uberguard from his Wolfenstein mod Operation panzerchief.


There are some vswap graphics that are new to this mod, just a couple of wall textures created by me, the blue strip wood pannel and the grey strip wood pannel. I also might have recoloured the day landscape into a sunset landscape. Feel free to use these in your own mod if you wish to.

I would also like to thank a few people for source code tutorials Martin Krysiak <mailto:muad.dib1@wp.pl> for directing tutorials at the Wolfenstein dome, MCS for the seamless levels shortcut, Luke Strauman for source code tutorials. Without you guys many of this mod's code changes wouldn't have been possible, so thanks it's more than I could have asked for.  

And thank you for downloading and playing this mod I hope you enjoy playing this mod as much as I enjoyed creating it.



How I created this mod
Mapedit for level creation
Wolfedit for vswap graphic replacement
Flo edit for editing levels, vswap graphics and sounds, vga screen graphics, importing new music, editing end art and recording new demos
Chaos edit for level editing, graphics editing.
Wolfenstein source code code editing. 
Adam Biser's IMF creator for converting some of the midi music.
Cubase SX3 and Magix midi studio for the music I composed myself.


You are welcome to use this mod as a base for your own mods, if you want to use any of the vswap graphics or sounds and music from this mod fine by me full credit as mentioned above, your welcome to use the levels in this mod for your own mods. 


Keep your eyes peeled for more future Wolfenstein mods and level sets by me PDGamer2012 including reboots of my other 2 Wolfenstein mods ( The Spear and The Cold War ) I released when I known as Penguindog55, also planned is the full version of PD Wolf as soon as all 60 levels are done. You may also be interested in my PDGamer2012 YouTube account <http://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmeI5dCWtzBjHnnH3DgEH_w> where I upload video game commentarys.
Now it's time to get in there and bring the Third Riech down!



   

      

   

   
