     
     Wow, sorry about the LONG storyline that follows. I guess I got a
bit carried away! Oh well, I hope id software don't mind me doing all
this. Hell, without id software, we wouldn't have classic games like
Wolfenstein and Doom to stuff around with! But, I figure that as they
turn a blind eye to the thousands of Doom add ons, editors etc etc
freely available on the shareware scene, that hopefully they won't mind
this add on storyline for "Wolfendoom". After all, the only thing I'm
getting out of this is a bit of fun, but, hopefully for id software, it
may entice a few more people to purchase the registered version of the
original classic, Wolfenstein 3D.

     Well, a game without a background story is a bit like a novel 
without a plot; meaningless. So here's a background story to give
"Wolfendoom" some meaning!

                           W O L F E N D O O M
                           ===================

     "Doom", as we all know it, is set in the future. Let's go back in
time, to the present, when a fledgling company known as the Union 
Aerospace Corporation (UAC) was in the process of establishing itself
in the business world.

     It's a cold and rainy Sunday morning, and you find yourself standing
outside the main entrance to UAC1, one of the 6 UAC sites in existance.
You were recently employed here, and, as you pace back and forth, 
contemplating the enormity of the task you are about to undertake, you
think to yourself; "Is it worth it?"

     Maybe it would just be easier to forget this whole idea and go back
home. Let UAC go to hell. After all, they'd brought their problems on
themselves. And they'd hardly treated you well, either! But there was
more at stake than just UAC. You realised the coward's way out was not
an option, after all, you were no coward!

     Your name, of course, is none other than B.J. Blazkowicz, the 
famous World War II veteran. Of course, you're a little older and wiser
now (50 years older to be precise, but let's just say that age hasn't
detracted from our heroes abilities or good looks just yet!).

     You pondered the events that had led to you being here outside
UAC1. After the war, you spent many years working for the military in
senior executive positions. That's what led to UAC snapping you up when
you applied for a job with them a few years ago as a senior military
consultant. With UAC's heavy involvement in military related projects,
you were their ideal choice for the position. And so, for the past few
years or so, you had excelled in your position at the fledgling UAC.
Things couldn't have been better, or so you had thought until just a 
few short months ago...

     It all started when you attended the UAC1 General Manager's office
one day to present a report on a project you were involved with. On
entering his office, you couldn't help but notice the eye catching
object sitting prominently on his desktop. It was in the shape of a life
size human skull, but crafted from what appeared to be a dazzling blue
sapphire like material. The General Manager had immediately acknowledged
your obvious interest in the skull.

     "Oh, I see you're quite taken by my new `paperweight', B.J." he had
laughed.

     "Paperweight?" you had replied. "It looks like a damned expensive
type of paperweight!" you'd exclaimed.

     It was the General Manager's delayed response that aroused your
curiosity. 
     "Oh, it's nothing, really. Just a gift from the boys down in
Research, actually. Ahh, the report, B.J., let's see it, I've got a
busy schedule, you know."

     Well, he'd dropped that subject like a hot potato! Boys down at
Research? You left the General Manager's office shortly after, wondering
what the hell the UAC Research team guys were doing sucking up to the
General Manager in such a seemingly extravagant, if not unusual, fashion.
Ahh, what the hell, you had work to do, so you quickly put the skull out
of your mind. But it didn't stay there long.

     The following week you visited a colleague's office to check on a
business matter, only to find him out. Grabbing a notepad from his desk
to leave him a message, you noticed a shimmering red object on the floor
behind an indoor plant. Leaning sideways, you positioned yourself to get
a better look.

     Another skull. Except this time, the most intoxicating ruby red.
Intrigued, you picked the skull up off the floor and closely examined it.
     
     The craftsmanship was flawless. It was as if an actual human skull
had been somehow crystallized, such was the detail etched into it. As
you carefully turned the skull over in your hands, you all of a sudden
became aware of someone watching you. Turning around, you saw your
colleague standing at the entrance to his office.

     "Not bad, is it?" he smiled, looking at the skull in your hands.

     "A gift from the boys at Research, eh?" you quipped.

     "Yeh! Dead on. You got one too, eh?" he replied. But before you
could reply, your colleague closed his office door and continued
rambling on, albeit in a lowered voice.
     "I've been told the red ones are special. I've done a few favours
for the Research boys in the past, and they gave me that as a way of
saying thanks. Most of the others they've given away are the blue 
sapphire variety. Doesn't matter much, anyway; their real value is highly
questionable as no one can tell us what they're really made from. Looks
like gemstone, but apparently just an imitation of sorts."

     You still couldn't understand any of this `skull' business.

     "Well, why the skulls? Where are they getting these things from?"
you asked.

     Your friend pondered for a moment before replying.
     "Who knows, B.J., who knows. All I know is that there's been a lot
of excitement down in the Research department lately. I know a few of
the fellows down there pretty well, and although they won't say anything
to me about it, I expect they're toying with some new experimental
material. Those skulls are probably just a bit of a joke, but you try
smashing one, B.J.! Almost impossible to even dent the things! And I
back it in that they're made from this new experimental material. Well,
at least that's my guess, anyway."

     Well, so much for that. Although all of this remained a bit of a
mystery, it seemed somewhat more trivial now. Perhaps your friend was
right about the development of a new material. But in the weeks to come,
other odd things were to occur that would make you curious as to what
was really going on down in the UAC Research Department.
     
     Firstly, there was the increase in UAC armed personnel patrolling
the site. Normally, due to UAC's involvment in military projects, many
of which you were personally involved with, there were always a number
of armed troopers, employed by UAC, patrolling the site. But no military
projects you were involved with warranted this dramatic increase in the
number of UAC troopers on site. Security had more than doubled in the
space of a few weeks, and on the spot I.D. checks of UAC staff by 
troopers had become a daily occurrence rather than just a random event.

     And something else had caught your attention. Due to your executive
position, you had ready access to information regarding freight movements
to and from the UAC site. On checking whether a consignment of parts for
a project you were involved with had arrived the previous day, you 
couldn't help but notice the dramatic increase in freight movement in and
out of the site. Incoming freight had almost doubled, and outgoing
freight had more than tripled! Just in the space of a couple of months!

     Something decidedly fishy was going on. Your thoughts kept returning
to the sudden appearance of those unusual skulls. Damn it, in your
position, you should know what the hell was going on! And so you made
that fateful decision to investigate just what it was. 

     Obviously, the Research Department seemed to be the centre of all
this odd activity. However, there was no way you were going to be able
to access that area unless special security clearance was given. Fat
chance of that! It seemed the next most logical way of gathering clues,
though, was to investigate the increase in freight consignments entering
and leaving the place. So that would be where you started your
investigation.

     Working back late one evening, you decided the time was right. 
Leaving your office, you strolled down to the secured entrance leading
to the main freight containment areas. Inserting your key into the
computerized access panel, you heard an audible `click' followed by
the sound of the steel security door sliding sideways. `ACCESS GRANTED',
so you were informed by the access panel. Ha! You'd feared that your
access rights to this area may have been changed what with all this
increase in security, but such was not the case! This may be easier
than you thought! But, as you approached the loading bay entrance to
the main stores, two UAC troopers approached you.

     "I'm sorry, sir, but this is a restricted area" exclaimed one.

     "Since when have the stores been restricted to the likes of me?"
you queried.

     "Orders from the General Management, sir. No one to enter the 
stores outside of working hours unless proper authorisation is given."
replied the trooper.

     "I've got news for you, sonny!" you retorted. "I've got a damned
important freight consignment sitting down here. I'm personally
responsible to ensure nothing happens to it."
     
     You were stunned when the trooper cocked his rifle and aimed it
directly at your chest. "I'm sorry, sir, but I have strict orders!"

     Your response was quick. "How dare you point that thing in my
direction! Do you know who I am? I'll have your head on a platter for
this!"

     It worked! The trooper lowered his weapon slightly, and replied:
     "Sir, I'm sorry, but, my orders were to stop anyone coming in here
after hours..."

     You decided to continue with the overbearing tone. Those SS officers
at Castle Wolfenstein had taught you a trick or two, after all!

     Look here, young man," you replied, "I'm working back late tonight
to make sure this project is ready to go first thing tomorrow morning.
If that consignment isn't ready, it'll jeopardise everything." Pointing
your finger at the troopers chest, you added "and if that happens, I'll
hold you personally responsible!"

     The two troopers looked at each other. The one that had been doing
the talking turned towards you and, motioning with his rifle for you to
enter the main store, said "Ten minutes only, sir. That's all I can
allow."

     Deciding not to overdo the arrogance, you replied "Ten minutes is
all I need, thankyou", and with that you headed into the large main
storage area.

     Out of sight of the guards, you quickly scanned the interior of the
store for other guards or cameras. You were in luck - none in sight!
Hidden cameras may be a possibility, but, hell, you knew risks would
have to be taken. Besides, your gut instinct told you something nasty
was being covered up here. Time was precious - you moved quickly.

     You headed over to a corner where a new consignment of incoming
freight containers had been stacked against a wall. A quick check of the
consignment numbers indicated that these containers all had the same
contents. Taking one more cursory glance around yourself, you used a
steel bar you'd found against a wall to pry the top off one of the
containers and reveal the contents.

     Automatic rifle ammunition! So, all these containers, and there 
were hundreds of them, contained ammunition! OK, you could understand
that a certain amount of ammo was needed for the UAC troopers on site,
but hundreds of containers of the stuff? C'mon, this was overkill!

     Quickly, you headed to another area loaded with incoming freight
containers. Once again, all labelled with identical consignment numbers.
A quick jerk of the steel bar and the top of one was off, allowing you
to peek inside.

     First aid kits! What was all of this? Stockpiles of ammo, and now
stockpiles of first aid kits! It was as if UAC were preparing for all
out war! Something very strange was going on, of that you were now
certain. And you were determined now, more than ever, to get to the
bottom of this.

     The outgoing freight. That had to yield the key to this whole
business. What could UAC be shipping out of this place in such large
quantities? Well, you were about to find out. Having moved over to the
outgoing freight containment area, you found yourself confronted with
hundreds of large crates all with similar consignment numbers. And all
marked with highly classified government or military research 
institutions as their destinations. This would be interesting. Acting
quickly, you forced the top off one of the crates to reveal...
                                                        
     Skulls! Hundreds and hundreds, indeed, thousands of those damned
skulls that had been appearing around the place. And blue vials 
containing some sort of fluorescant liquid. What was this stuff? And
then something caught your attention. A few containers, stacked 
seperately from the rest, in a remote corner. The outside of some of
these containers were slightly frosted over with ice, indicating
something cold inside. You'd already used your ten minutes - you had to
act very quickly now. 
     
     Forcing the lid off one of these crates, you found the inside to be
filled with crushed dry ice. Carefully brushing aside the top centimetre
layer of ice, you found that something was being stored in what appeared
to be...

     You brushed aside some more of the ice, careful not to burn your
fingers with the intense cold it generated. It couldn't be? Or was it?
It was! A body bag! A chill ran up your spine. Finding the zipper, you
carefully unzipped the bag to peer in at what lay within.

     You'd never seen anything like it before. It was a body, no doubt,
but of what? The creature resembled a gorilla of sorts, but with what
appeared to be spikes or small ivory like tusks protruding from its
body. But before you could examine it further, the cocking of an automatic
rifle from behind made you spin around.

     "I'm afraid your ten minutes is up, sir!"

     Before you could react, a rifle butt from another trooper standing
to your side came crashing down on the back of your head, and all went
black...

     You regained conciousness in what appeared to be a hospital room.
Your head throbbed, and it was no surprise to find a large lump on the
back of your cranium. After what seemed like hours, the door to your room
opened, and a familiar face appeared at the door. It was none other than
the UAC General Manager! Well, a visit from the top boy himself. Seems
your actions may have stirred up a bit of an ants nest.

     "B.J., good to see you've come to. How are you feeling?" he asked.

     "I've felt better", came your cool reply. The General Manager
gave a wry smile and continued.

     "Mmmm, that was a nasty fall you had. Should be more careful going
down those stairs, you know, B.J."

     Nasty fall? You shot an angry glance at the General Manager. "I'd
hardly call a rifle butt blow to the back of my head a nasty fall" you
snapped.

     "Rifle butt blow? Now, now, B.J., I think your wartime experiences
must be catching up with you! You had a nasty fall, that's all. Must have
affected your memory, by the look of it. Falls like that can do that kind
of thing, you know!"

     You didn't like the condescending manner in which he spoke. You gave
him an icy stare. 
     "I stuck my nose in where it wasn't welcome, granted, but in my
position here at UAC, I should bloody well know what's going on here!
Judging by what's being `exported' out of this place and the quantity of
ammunition and first aid coming in, something big is going on, and seems
to be getting covered up for some reason."

     The General Manager shook his head in dismay.
     "I'm disappointed, B.J.! For one thing, there is no such freight
movement taking place at all. Your imagination again, I'm afraid. But, if
I were you, B.J., I wouldn't go talking to everyone about the tricks your
imagination has been playing on you. After all, your credibility is at
stake here."

     "Absolute crap!" you replied. "My credibility has nothing to do with
this! Come on, tell me. What is going on here? Really?!!!"

     The General Manager hung his head momentarily, then looked back at
you.
     "You'd better get better, B.J. - and you'd better be more careful,
too, my friend. After all, we can't have you being careless and falling
down any more steps, can we? Another nasty fall could kill you..."

     The message sank in. Shut up or be silenced. Well, you'd play their
game for now, but, you were determined not to let the matter rest.

     After a few days recuperating, you returned to work, knowing things
were not going to be quite the same. You were not surprised then, within
an hour of returning, you were summoned to attend the General Manager's
office.

     On entering the office, you found yourself confronted by not only
the General Manager, but the Personnel Manager and another UAC bigwig.
     "Take a seat, B.J." beckoned the General Manager. After a moments
silence, he continued.
     "I'm not sure whether you know it or not, B.J., but there's been a
bit of a structural shake up within UAC. Unfortunately, your position
within the company has been made redundant, so I'm afraid that we will
no longer have need of your services."

     Somehow, this didn't surprise you one iota. Stuff it, let them play
their little games down in the Research Department, you were getting too
old to bother with the likes of these fools anymore. The General Manager
seemed surprised when you smiled and accepted the redundancy package
without offering any further comment. You even shook his hand before
departing!

     And so it was that you departed UAC for what you thought was the
last time. You looked forward to an early retirement from all this 
bullshit. Let's enjoy life for once!

[I warned you - this is a bloody long storyline! Yes, I know, I can
waffle on! And guess what? We're almost a third of the way there! WHAT??? 
I hear you say - only a bloody THIRD of the way? ALMOST??? OK, I'm sorry. 
Bear with me, we're getting there - albeit slowly!]

     Three months passed. Then one day, while relaxing over a drink at
your favourite hotel, you felt a hand touch your shoulder. 
     "B.J. Blazkowicz!" a voice exclaimed. "I was told I'd find you
here!"

     Swinging around in your chair, you recognised a familiar face.
     "Why, I know your face!" you exclaimed. "UAC Research Department,
right?"

     The man smiled. 
     "Dead on! Or, well, at least I used to be part of the UAC Research
team, that is, until I resigned last week." His smile had died as he
finished the sentence. Before you could offer a reply, he continued in a
hushed tone.
     "So, I believe you saw a little too much for UAC's liking down in
the main stores area, eh? Let me tell you, what you saw was nothing, but
still your actions caused quite a bit of concern among the top boys!"

     "How do you know all of this?" you asked.
      
     "I worked in the Research Department, B.J., the centre of all the
strange activity that's been going on at UAC. There's not much we didn't
hear about."

     "Well, that's history now," you lamented. "Why'd you come looking
for me?"

     The man shot a cautious glance around the bar before answering.
     "Well, B.J., firstly, let me explain some things to you. Things
are getting pretty bad down at UAC, it won't be long before things get
totally out of control. That's the reason I resigned. I sincerely
believe my life is on the line just through coming here to talk to you.
If anyone at UAC finds out I'm talking to you about this, I'm a goner.
But, I have to take the risk."

     Your interest had been aroused.
     "What the hell are you on about?" you asked.

     "I'll tell it from the beginning," he replied, "then you'll know
exactly what's been going on." The man took a seat opposite you, and
drew in a deep breath of air before continuing.

     "It all started two years ago at UAC Plant 6. The Research team
there were working on a project involving some form of teleportation
technology. The military got wind of it, and were so keen on developing
the idea as quickly as possible that they poured millions into funding
the project. As far as the military were concerned, the benefits of such
technology were obvious. Imagine, teleporting squads of troops and
supplies in behind enemy lines. Infiltrating enemy headquarters. The
possibilities were endless. Anyway, with the unlimited budget allocated
to researching this teleportation business, the Research team at UAC6
decided to go full hog on the project. Within a year, they found 
themselves on the verge of a breakthrough. Then, through sheer chance,
they created something totally unexpected. Somehow, they had artificially
created some kind of a void, or a portal of sorts, inside the actual
Research lab itself. Not knowing exactly what it was, they threw some
objects into the thing, only to see them swallowed up and seemingly
gone without a trace. A tracking device was thrown into the `portal' to
try to ascertain where the things were going, but as soon as the thing
disappeared, so too did the signal it transmitted. No one dared entering
the thing in person, as it was considered a possible lethal course of
action. That's when the military stepped in and used their political
muscle to provide a `volunteer'. This `volunteer' was a military prisoner
sentenced to be executed the following day for murder. The offer they
made to him was, volunteer for the experiment, and, if he survived, his
sentence would be commuted to life imprisonment. With nothing to lose,
the prisoner had accepted the proposal willingly. And so the first human
entered this `portal'. One hour or so after after he'd gone in, fears
grew that he'd been killed as soon as he had entered, as there had still
been no sign of him. But, then, all of a sudden, he had emerged from the
portal, totally unharmed. His only comments were that, compared to the
place he'd just been, prison would seem a much brighter place than he'd
ever known it to be!
     And so, after this, teams of UAC research personnel entered the
portal to see what lay beyond. What they found was a kind of `gothic'
world. Test after test revealed that, where ever this place was, it was
not of this world. It was as if the portal was an entrance to another
world, or dimension, perhaps even another time plane. Whatever, 
exploration of the place revealed a number of unusual artefacts. The
skulls you're so familiar with by now, are from this `new world'. So too
are those blue vials you may have seen down in the main storage areas.
They contain some kind of unusual liquid that reportedly has healing
properties. Anyway, orders from the top boys required that we collect as
many of these artefacts as possible so they could be distributed to 
various top secret research institutions for thorough examination and
testing.
     Whilst all this had been going on, instructions had been issued to 
the other five UAC sites in this country to have their research 
departments attempt to duplicate the creation of this `portal'. 
Fortunately, or on hindsight, maybe not so fortunately at all, the 
research team at UAC6 had documented all steps they had taken towards the
creation of the portal. Following these exact same procedures, and with
funding from the military, the research teams at the other five UAC sites
were able to achieve the exact same result as UAC6 - a portal to another
`dimension'.
     At first it was assumed that each portal would be a doorway to the
exact same area as that found beyond the original portal at UAC6, but
this was not the case. The portals obviously seemed to lead to the same
`other worldly' dimension, but each portal opened a doorway to a
completely new area within this dimension. Anyway, once these portals
had been created, the orders from the UAC hierarchy was the same; explore
the new `dimension' as thoroughly as possible, and retrieve as many
artefacts as possible for research purposes."

     The man finally paused for a second to quaff a beer he'd bought
earlier. His incredible story had you engrossed, although you still
wondered what his motivation in telling you was. He continued.
     "Anyway, things went without incident for a short while, but then,
something happened over at UAC6, the location of the first portal. A
research team had been passing through a previously explored area of the
new dimension, when all of a sudden, they encountered a foreign life form.
Before they had a chance to react, the creature attacked with an evil
ferocity, killing three of the team and sending the others scurrying back
to the portal. A team of UAC troopers was sent into the portal to tackle
the creature. Apparently it put up quite a fight, killing one of the
troopers in the process, but a few well aimed shots brought the thing
down."

     You were fascinated. 
     "What did this creature look like?" you asked.

     "I believe you already know the answer to that question." the man
replied. You remembered the creature on ice down in the main stores area
at UAC1. 

     "Don't tell me," you said, "an ape like creature with ivory like
spikes protruding from its body."

     "That's the one," the man replied, "think yourself lucky the one you
saw was dead. I've only ever seen these things once when they were alive,
believe me, you want to have some heavy artillery on hand before taking 
those bastards on. But, back to what I was saying.
     After this initial incident at UAC6, encounters with these creatures
gradually became more and more commonplace. They started appearing in the
areas beyond the portals at the other five UAC sites, also. Some of us in
the Research Department had a theory that, the more we exploited the new
dimensions for artefacts and so forth, the more these creatures multiplied.
But, of course, that was only a theory, and the military weren't interested
in our theories. Before long, it was a standard practice to send a team of
heavily armed UAC troopers along with any research personnel entering the
new areas. And it was entirely due to the appearance of these hostile
creatures that UAC more than doubled the number of troopers at each UAC
site. Added security measures were also being taken, as UAC feared news of 
this business would somehow be leaked to the press."
                                       
     As you listened to the man's story, the pieces of the jigsaw all
began falling into place. The skulls, the sudden increase in UAC troop
numbers, the outgoing freight movement. But you were still somewhat
mystified by the dramatic influx of ammunition and first aid supplies
to the UAC sites. 

     "One thing puzzles me," you said. "Down in the main storage area, I
found mass quantities of ammunition and first aid crated up. I mean, I can
understand the need for extra ammunition and first aid supplies given the
appearance of these creatures, but, with the amount I saw down in the main
storage area, it was as if UAC were preparing for all out war!"

     A grim look came over the man's face. "They are, my friend, they are.
The UAC management are starting to get edgy, but now that the military are
in control of things, UAC are powerless to do anything about it. The
military just can't seem to realise the true seriousness of the situation.
You see, the problem over at UAC6 is more advanced than at the other UAC
sites, I suppose due to the fact that the portal there has been in
existence for longer than the others. What happens through the portal 
there seems to happen soon after with the portals at the other sites. It's
got to the stage where new hostile creatures are starting to appear. On
one of my brief visits to this other dimension at our own site, UAC1, I
encountered a spectre like creature, half invisible and very fast. Luckily
the troopers with me brought it down with one shot. I believe other more
dangerous creatures have been appearing beyond the other portals.
Basically, the situation, especially at UAC6, is getting totally out of
control. No longer do we encounter the odd creature or two in the other
dimensions, but hordes of them all over the place. They're multiplying.
And as I stated earlier, I believe it's all due to this continual removal
of those damned artefacts from this new dimension. It's like we've
violated their world, and now it's time to pay. And that, B.J., is why
UAC have huge stockpiles of ammunition and first aid - the new dimensions
have become a veritable battlefield!"

     "Well," you asked, "why don't UAC just stop removing artefacts from
these other dimensions? Leave sleeping dogs lie, if you like?"

     "But as I explained, B.J., our theories in why these problems are
worsening don't interest the military, and as UAC are now virtually under
military control, approaching the UAC hierarchy with our ideas won't make
any difference. The military head honchos just want to exploit the new
dimensions for all their worth. Hell, if some of the rumours I've heard
are true, and I have strong reason to believe they are, this whole world
of ours could be in dire trouble if the military get their way."

     "The whole world?!!" you laughed. "Look, I hardly see how these
creatures, as nasty as they may be, could pose a threat of that nature!"

     The man frowned at your response. "You don't, do you? Well, you may
just change your mind after you've heard out the rest of my story."

     "Alright, then," you replied. "I'm listening."

     The man paused before continuing, checking no doubt to see he had
your complete attention before doing so.
     "What I've told you so far is only the beginning. A couple of months
ago, just before the military took effective control of UAC, the UAC
management, concerned over the attacks being made on our people by these
vile creatures, decided to close off the portals due to the danger
associated with the new dimension. Listen to this - the portals COULDN'T
be closed! This was contrary to all research department predictions; 
somehow, something was preventing their closure. More accurately, our
research on the problem indicated something on the other side of the 
portals was keeping them open. Question was, what? The UAC management
decided to act quickly. At each of the 6 UAC sites, a crack squad of UAC
troopers was prepared, and then sent into the portals with orders to 
penetrate the new dimensions as far as possible in an effort to determine
where and what the problem was preventing the closure of the portals. Some 
of these troops were armed with rapid fire assault weapons, even chainguns, 
such was the firepower deemed necessary to combat these creatures. A few 
troopers were left near the portal entrances in the new dimension areas 
to maintain communications with the main groups, as communications could 
not be maintained from the UAC side of the portals. Results and reports
varied at each location, but I'll cite some examples for you.
     At UAC6, the main squad of troopers made excellent progress, with
only few casualties, and penetrated several levels into the new dimension
before encountering a level that seemed to lead no further, a `dead end',
or so it seemed. However, they hadn't explored the central area of this
level. Last communication received from them was that they were moving in
towards the central hub of this level. No more was heard after that. A
backup squad of troopers was sent in to investigate; they found only one
bloodied survivor trying to make his way back to the portal entrance.
Apparently his only words were; `don't go on - danger - invisible!' He was
led back to the UAC side of the portal by two other troopers, but died
soon after. As for the rest of the backup squad, they didn't heed his
advice, and went on to investigate. They were never seen again. Something
had to have stopped them, B.J., something extremely powerful. And it is
this something that we believe must be eliminated in order to effect the
closure of the portal at UAC6.
     The squads at UAC2, 4 and 5 reported similar findings to those 
reported by the squad at UAC6 - but were lucky to have some survivors to
give a more accurate account of what the problem regarding portal closure
could be. The common denominator between these four UAC sites was that the 
final levels within these new dimensions have no apparent exit, and that
these levels are being controlled by some `supreme' creature of immense 
strength. Our research indicates that the presence of these `supreme'
creatures is somehow linked to our inability to close off the portals.
It's as if these ungodly beasts are the `rulers' of these new dimension
areas, and somehow have a degree of control over the portal leading to and
from their particular dimensional area. I firmly believe that, if these
creatures can be destroyed, then the portals will close down automatically."

     "You stated that the `assault' squads sent in reported similar
findings at UAC sites 2, 4, 5 and 6. What about those at our own site here,
UAC1, and those at UAC3?" you asked.

     "Yes, well, they're a different kettle of fish altogether, or so it
seems at the moment. The `assault' squads, as you call them, reported
different findings in the `final' levels they'd penetrated. At UAC1, the
troopers transmitted a message that they had located what appeared to be
an `exit' portal, or void, in the final level. Although they could see it,
they couldn't access the area it was in, and it soon became obvious that
to do so, they were going to have to find a key to open a particular door
they believed sealed off the area leading to this portal. We don't know if
they were able to find such a key or not - they were never heard from 
again.
     As for the situation at UAC3, well, that's a bit of a mystery. The
squad that penetrated the final level were elated when they reported
killing some huge creatures they'd encountered in this level. One of these
creatures possessed a key that apparently opened a previously inaccessable 
area. The troopers reported finding another key in this area, and the last
transmission received from them indicated they were heading towards an
`exit' from the level. We believe this `exit' may lead to another `portal',
like that reported in the new dimension at UAC1. The research teams have
a theory that, if someone were to pass through one of these `exit' portals,
it would return that person back to the UAC side of the original portal,
and both portals would then destabilize and close."

     "Well, if that's the case," you queried, "why didn't the portal at
UAC1 close when the assault squad passed through the `exit' portal? I mean,
they DID find an exit portal, didn't they?"

     A distressed look fell upon the man's face.
     "No, unfortunately, tragedy struck before they could make it to the
assumed exit point. Their last transmission ended with the sound of muffled
screams and gunshots. Something stopped them. We don't know what."

     The man paused momentarily, and muttered to himself "little wonder
the new dimensions have been given a new collective nickname..."

     "What's that?" you enquired.

     The man looked you squarely in the face, and replied "the Doom
dimension, my friend, the Doom dimension. For the research teams at all UAC
sites believe these new dimensions could, ultimately, spell the doom of all
mankind, unless, of course, something is done to close these portals
immediately."

     "There you go again," you remarked. "End of the world stuff. I don't
get it. If the military have now taken control of UAC, why don't they send
in a whole bloody army of crack troops to solve things?"

     "As I said earlier, the military have their own ideas. Let me explain.
Once the military learned of UAC's failed attempts to close off the portals
by sending in troopers, they went apeshit. Apparently they were furious
that the UAC management had even considered closing the portals! That's 
when they moved in to take over all UAC operations relating to the portals, 
citing that the portals were vital to `national security'! Of course, the
boys in the Research department didn't buy that! A bit of risky prying was
done, and we believe we know the REAL reason for the military's interest
in keeping these portals open."

     "Why doesn't anything relating to the military head honchos surprise
me?" you asked, with a wry grin on your face. "So tell me, what is their
motive?"

     "Listen to this. The military have plans to send in their own squads
of troopers, not to eliminate these ungodly creatures, but to capture as
many as possible. Capture ALIVE, that is! The only thing stopping them 
from attempting this right away is that they're still in the process of
building a fortified holding place in which to keep these creatures. From
what I have heard, I believe such a place is not far from completion. And 
do you know what the fools plan to use these creatures for? They plan to 
use them in warfare, unleashing hordes of the beasts into enemy locations 
as a kind of `terror' weapon. Bloody military, they have no idea what 
they're dabbling with here!"

     "Why don't you go to the press with all of this?" you asked, "make it
public!" you added.

     "Are you kidding?!!" the man exclaimed. "One of my colleagues in the
Research department did just that, and UAC, acting strictly under orders
from the military, just dismissed my colleagues allegations as the ravings
of a lunatic. Needless to say, the press bought it, and my poor friend has
never been seen or heard from again. I fear the worst for him, B.J."

     "I can understand your concern," you said, "but, surely, there must be
some other way of tackling this whole situation, don't you agree?"

     "I'm afraid there isn't time to think of alternative ways to handle
this, B.J., for there's been a frightening new development over at UAC6 in
the past two weeks. Up to that point, no creatures from the `Doom' dimension
had ever crossed through the portals to our own world. As such, the UAC side
of the portals were considered a `safe haven'. But all that changed when,
on Monday last week, as I recall, UAC6 reported creatures coming through
the portal into the UAC site. I know the same will soon happen at UAC1, and
indeed the other UAC complexes, as generally, what happens at UAC6 happens 
soon after at the other UAC sites. That's why I resigned, B.J., I just 
didn't want to be around when these things started pouring through."

     "What was the military's reaction to this turn of events?" you asked.

     "A patchwork solution, I'm afraid. All they've done is quadruple the
number of troopers at the site. In fact, I believe the troopers are in
reality members of the military's own forces, but disguised as UAC troopers
so as not to arouse suspicion from the public."

     You sighed. "Look," you said, "I know that the military are up to no
good with all of this, but, I still fail to see how all of this is of any
real threat to the entire world! I mean, the military have more than enough
hardware to destroy anything that comes through these portals!"

     The man gave you a slightly puzzled look. "You almost sound like the
military, B.J.!"

     "Don't forget, I was with the military up to the time I joined UAC!"
you laughed.

     "Well, consider this. What I'm about to tell you would be denied
totally by the military hierarchy; they don't want to know about this
latest development - they're too obssessed with their plans to capture and
use these creatures in future warfare. Some new hostile entities have been
encountered within the `Doom' dimensions recently. It's almost as if the
creatures controlling these dimensions are starting to recognise that the
human intruders to their world are more of a match than what they had 
initially expected, and are starting to evolve new creatures capable of
withstanding the type of physical attack we rely upon to bring down an
enemy. These new entities vary - some rumours I've heard speak of them as
looking like something from your worst nightmare. Others rumours I've heard 
indicate some of them are totally invisible. Whatever the case, all reports
regarding these new entities have one common thread; these new `beings'
CANNOT BE HARMED! Well, at least, not through any known methods of attack,
anyway. In addition, these `entities' have only to touch you to kill you, 
unlike with the other creatures encountered in the `Doom' dimension, who
seem to rely on a more conventional style of attack.
     Thankfully, reports of these things have been extremely rare to date,
with one exception. Last week, just prior to my resignation, a colleague of 
mine from the Research department over at UAC6 was telling me that 
encounters with these things in their own `Doom' dimension were starting to 
become a little too common for comfort. He told me of a team of crack 
military supplied troopers that had been caught completely by surprise when 
some form of invisible `entity' had attacked, decimating their ranks in a 
matter of seconds. Every possible attempt to defeat this thing was made, but
it soon became evident that nothing was going to work. The fact that this 
thing was virtually invisible certainly didn't help, but, the troopers were 
able to make out its presence through a light diffusion pattern created on 
the floor just below it. This at least gave them the advantage of being able
to identify the thing's location, although only just before the thing was
upon them. But it helped them to isolate its position within the `Doom'
dimension, and a movable section of wall in the vicinity was pushed by the
troopers to trap the thing in an enclosed area. But there's no telling how 
long this thing will stay trapped.
     And that's what concerns me about these portals being left open. It's
only a matter of time before one of these invincible entities makes its
way through to a portal and into our world. And once that happens, B.J.,
what will we do then? How does the human race deal with an extremely hostile
entity that can't be stopped? As you can imagine, things may soon start to 
get way out of control to the point where even the military can't help us. 
We could find ourselves with not just one, but several, perhaps hundreds or
even more of these things let loose upon our world. We can't afford to sit 
back and wait until that happens."
     
     "I understand the gravity of the situation, now that you've explained
it to me in depth," you responded. Somehow, you knew what was coming next.
Was it really that predictable?

     "Well," he continued, "only myself, my Research department colleagues,
and now you, understand the true seriousness of the situation. Something has
to be done immediately in order to close off these portals. Neither myself
or my colleagues are capable of the type of feat required to pull something
like this off. But, you, B.J., you may just be our last hope. What with
your experience, I firmly believe you could be the only one capable of
helping us."

     Yep. You knew he was going to pop the big question. You mulled over
the idea for a few seconds before responding.
     "Why me?" you asked. "Surely there have to be others younger than me
who'd be more capable of helping you?"

     "But you, B.J., are the only one who would believe the story I have
just told you today. You've seen enough to get yourself a nasty hit on the
head down in the main storage area. I figured that, after seeing what you
had seen, you'd be more receptive to my story than anyone else I may have
approached. Not only that, but your `stick it to 'em' attitude with the
UAC hierarchy back then earned you quite a bit of respect down in the
Research department. You're not the type to tow the line merely because
the hierarchy tell you to. I think you can make the right decisions
irrespective of what others try to make you believe, and, I hope you make
the right decision here, and quickly, as time is a critical factor..."

     You weren't going to accept his proposal immediately. You were a hero,
of that there was no doubt, but even heroes had to know exactly what it was
they were getting themselves in for! (who ever said B.J. was modest?!!)

     "OK," you asked, "what is it exactly you're hoping I can achieve?"

     "It's a big ask, I realise, B.J., but, as I said, I don't know who else
I can turn to. We need you to infiltrate each of the six UAC sites around 
the country, enter the `Doom' dimensions via the portals at each site, and
work your way through to the final areas within each `Doom' dimension. Your
objective then would be to either eliminate the `supreme' creature that
seems to rule over that dimension, or, find an `exit' portal as described
earlier, and pass through it to the other side. Of course, each time one of
these objectives is successfully carried out, it would result in the portal
from that particular UAC site closing once and for all. Don't ask me how
I know this will happen, just accept that a lot of work has been done by
the research teams at all sites to figure this out. If the military knew
we'd been working on this stuff behind their backs, all hell would have
broken loose..."

     "OK, what happens to the poor bum who's `lucky' enough to destroy one
of these `supreme' creatures, as you call them? I suppose they get lost
within this `Doom' dimension for all eternity, eh?"
     
     "No, no!" exclaimed the man. "Our research has been thorough. Not just
the portal, but, the whole `Doom' dimension that that particular portal
leads to, would collapse, and in effect, cease to exist. All creatures or
items belonging to that dimensional area, other than those that have come 
through the portal into our world, would cease to exist also. But any 
living thing from our world currently in that dimensional area would 
rematerialise back in our world, at or near the location of where the portal 
had existed within the UAC Research department.
     As for those `Doom' dimensions with an `exit' portal located somewhere
within their final level, we have very strong reason to believe that, by 
passing through one of these portals, you would be teleported back to the
location of the entry portal within the research area. Both portals, and
their associated `Doom' dimension, would then cease to exist. As I stated 
earlier, we believe only the dimensions accessable from UAC1 and UAC3 fit 
this category.
     But, I have to be honest. As certain as we are that this is how things 
would work, I cannot guarantee your safety. The process by which you would
be `rematerialised' back in our world is an unknown one. Hopefully, it 
should not be a harmful process, but, I suppose risks are a big part of
this mission."

     "Alright, then,"  you said. "Suppose I do agree to your proposal. 
How do I get into the UAC sites? I don't have security clearance anymore, 
you know!"

     "Unfortunately, I can't help you with any site other than UAC1. Just
before leaving UAC1 for the last time, I managed to steal a security key
for the main entrance. After departing through the main entrance, I was
unnerved to notice a UAC trooper following me. Fearing he was suspicious,
and knowing what could happen if I was caught with the key, I panicked, and
threw the thing into a small clump of bushes. Unfortunately, it was a
needless action, as the trooper just walked on past me without so much as
even saying `hello'. I haven't been game enough to go back and retrieve the
key, but, hopefully, it should still be there among the shrubs outside the
main entrance to UAC1. Find that key, and you'd be able to access the main
entrance.
     As for the other five UAC sites, well, I'm afraid you'd have to find
your own way in. I'm sure you'd be able to find an out of the way entrance
to these places, or perhaps just climb a fence somewhere! I trust your
resourcefulness would see you through, B.J.!"

     "Fine. Tell me, what could I expect once I got in?" you asked.

     "I'll be honest - trouble! Heaps of it. All UAC troopers are acting 
under strict orders from the military to shoot any intruders found on site 
without hesitation  - no pussyfooting around, just shoot to KILL. As for the
`Doom' dimension, well, its layout is on a par with the UAC side of things.
This is largely because, before the creatures started appearing, UAC had
doors and computerized access panels installed all through the `Doom'
dimension to control access to the various areas. Trouble is, these security
systems don't stop the creatures!
     There is one more thing you must understand, B.J. The military want to
keep the portals open for their own insane reasons, but they don't want hard
evidence of this leaking out to the press. An intruder, if not dealt with
immediately, could provide the press with such evidence. Unfortunately,
B.J., you would be viewed as an intruder if found on the UAC sites. It would
be best to make an attempt on a Sunday, as the sites would be at their
quietest - no innocent UAC office workers to get in your way. Once on site,
you'd have to make your way through the UAC complex directly towards its
Research Department - these areas are where you'll find the portals that
will take you through to the `Doom' dimension. Of course, you'd have to make
it a priority to find some heavy artillery before entering a portal. The UAC
troopers will do anything to stop you, B.J., you'd have no choice but to
shoot them, or be shot yourself. I wouldn't feel bad about having to do
this, though, B.J., as most of the decent UAC troopers you may have known
from the early days of UAC have either resigned or been killed inside the
`Doom' dimension. The ones that patrol the UAC sites now are mostly thugs
supplied by the military; hard headed cowboy types that the military feel
are keen to take on the creatures within the `Doom' dimension, while at the
same time following any types of orders without question."

     You nodded your head knowingly. "Yep! I think I know the type. Good
SS material! I had one of those idiots almost bash my brains out when I
was caught snooping down in the main storage area. They could've just
escorted me upstairs to see a higher UAC authority regarding my actions,
but, no; bash the poor bastard over the head instead! Somehow, I don't think
I'd feel any remorse in taking those bastards on if they tried to kill me!
     Tell me though. Why couldn't I just do what the military fear the most?
In other words, go in to steal hard evidence and take it to the press. It
would certainly save me from having to take on the `Doom' dimension."

     "Two reasons, B.J. - firstly, you'd have to be extremely lucky to find
enough evidence to present a solid, believable case to the press. Even if 
you did, the military would probably manage a cover up job like they did on
my friend. Secondly, as I have already said, time is a crucial factor here.
Going through the press etc etc would probably get positive results in the
longrun, but by then, it would no doubt be too late! We have to act NOW,
B.J.! So tell me. Will you do it? Will you help us close these portals for
good?"

     What the hell, you thought. Retirement was proving to be a bore, and
age hadn't wearied ol' B.J. Blazkowicz yet. You single handedly gave the
denizens of Wolfenstein a licking, so why should the denizens of Doom be any
different?
     "Tell you what," you said, "buy me a beer, and you've got a deal!"

     The man was elated. In his eyes, you had just become something of a
saviour. A few more final details were discussed, and your newly acquired
`friend' gave you some documentation relating to the earlier incursions by
UAC troopers into the `Doom' dimensions. These you would read later in an
effort to better prepare yourself for what lay ahead.

     Finally, the time came to bid farewell. As the man shook your hand, and
wished you good luck, one question popped into your mind.
     "Tell me," you asked, "if I should succeed in closing down all these 
portals, what's to guarantee that UAC won't go fiddling with this telepor-
tation stuff again in the future?"

     "Don't worry," the man reassured you. "I think UAC have learnt their
lesson. Teleportation technology is obviously in its infancy, and after our
experience with this `Doom' dimension, I think any further experimentation
with teleportation would have to be carried out in a place where Earth could
not be threatened. In fact, UAC had plans to set up a radioactive waste
operation on Mars some time in the near future. Maybe that would be the
ideal location to continue the research on teleportation. Better still, they
could use Mars' remote moons Phobos or Deimos to set up a teleportation
research centre. If you succeed in your mission, I may try to get my old job
back at UAC, and I'll suggest this idea to them. One thing is certain, they
would never be so careless as to allow something like this `Doom' dimension
to occur again!"

     And pigs might fly, you thought!

     And so it is that you find yourself standing outside the main entrance
to UAC1 on this cold and miserable Sunday morning. You ponder what lays
ahead once you go through that front door. There were many areas you would
have to pass through to accomplish the first stage of your mission; office
blocks, freight containment and storage areas, the Research Department, and,
finally, the `Doom' dimension itself!

     Armed with only a pistol and your bare hands, you wonder if you can 
accomplish this mammoth task. You'd never faced anything like the creatures 
your friend had described. But wait! Didn't you spend hours in your office 
at UAC1 playing a computer game called `Doom' when you should have been 
doing more important things? And you skipped through the levels! (Although 
with just a little difficulty on the `Nightmare' level...) Yes! You were 
ready after all! Time to save UAC and possibly the world! Time for the hero 
of Wolfenstein to take on the denizens of Doom! With the adrenalin pumping,
you head off to find the security key your friend had `deposited' among the
bushes. Look out, Doom, here comes B.J.!

     Whew! So there! Now you have your background story! You could have done
the same in just a few paragraphs? Well, maybe some reading will do you some
good for a change, instead of playing computer games all the time!

     Below follows a brief rundown on some things you should know when
playing `Wolfendoom'.





                           PLAYING WOLFENDOOM
                           ==================

     Playing `Wolfendoom' should be much the same as playing Wolfenstein,
after all, `Wolfendoom' IS Wolfenstein, except with new graphics, levels
and sounds. These changes do make a difference, though, so the following is
provided for info.

     As with the original Wolfenstein, I highly recommend that you play each
episode in order, as some of the later episodes contain tougher levels, as
well as the odd surprise or two! Each episode represents one of the six UAC
sites referred to in the storyline. The first episode represents your former
workplace, UAC1. Episode two represents the second UAC site (UAC2) and so
on, with Episode six of course representing the final UAC site, UAC6.

     Basically, each of the six episodes is divided into two distinctive
areas: UAC factory, stores and office complexes, and the `Doom' dimension
areas. The first level or levels of each episode consist of the UAC areas,
your aim being to find the `portal' in the Research Department, which will
take you through to the `Doom' dimension. Once there, you'll have to proceed
onwards to the final level (level 9) to face the final challenge.

     Of course, you could use a mapeditor and graphics editor to view 
everything before playing, but, that WOULD ruin the surprise element, and
take away some of the challenge, wouldn't it? My challenge to you is to
complete each episode without cheating! It is easier to do than you may
think! If you do find it hard, play on the easier skill levels.

     Please note that at the end of each episode, you'll still be presented 
with the original storyline conclusion from Wolfenstein. I'm not a 
programmer, and don't know how to change these. Even if I could change them,
I think it would be stepping over the mark a little as far as id software
are concerned! After all, it is their game, isn't it?!!

     KEYS:
     On most levels, you will be required to find a gold and/or blue access
key to proceed beyond certain locked doors. All plain doors are unlocked;
those with the brown UAC symbol on them are LOCKED. Some levels have locked
doors that CANNOT be opened by yourself, even with both keys in your 
possession. This is NOT a fault, it is deliberate. They are there for a
reason, or for appearance only. You are not supposed to go through them. If,
by chance, an enemy opens one for you, and you go through, be aware you may
find yourself stuck on the other side. In the few situations this may
happen, I've put secret pushwalls in so you can `push' your way out. But,
rest assured, odds are EXTREMELY SLIM that you'll find yourself in such a
predicament anyway. Most of these doors are there for appearance only, and
have nothing on the other side at all. The others - well, you'll find out!

     As a general rule, keys required to open doors are NOT hidden (keeping
in tradition with the original Wolfenstein). Nothing is more annoying than
gameplay being slowed down to a virtual halt because a key is hidden in some
ridiculously difficult to find location. There are some exceptions to this
rule in `Wolfendoom', but not too many. In these few cases, a `spare' key
may be hidden somewhere, eliminating the need to kill a `boss' to obtain a
key. Or, a necessary key may be visible to the player, but can only be
accessed through pushing secret pushwalls somewhere.

     COMPLETING A LEVEL:
     Somewhere on each level is a computerized panel which will either open
a door to the next level, or operate an elevator taking you to the next
level. Yep, same as Wolf, stand in front of the panel, and press the space
bar to proceed onwards.

     PORTALS: 
     These are the things you'll have to enter in order to cross into the
`Doom' dimension. You'll know one when you see one. They have big signs on
either side warning you not to enter!

     WEAPONS AND FIRST AID:
     Just as in Wolfenstein, you'll have to search for a lot of the ammo and
first aid you'll need to survive (unless you're a wimp and use the MLI keys
or god mode all the time!). In other words, you'll have to search for secret
pushwalls that may conceal necessary goodies. UAC troopers have hidden heaps
of ammo and first aid in all the UAC sites and the `Doom' dimensions, so
that there is always a supply nearby in the event of emergency. Trouble is,
you don't have their maps showing where they stashed it all.

     Depending on the skill level you're playing, each level should contain 
ample ammo\first aid to get you through without cheating. Don't worry, it's 
not all hidden! Personally, I tend to think I've overdone it a bit with the 
amount of first aid lying around the place. So, there's no excuse for you to
cheat, is there? If you get killed, I guess you're just not good enough!

     Remember in Wolf how, if a level was going to be a tough one, you'd
nearly always find a chaingun and accessories hidden not too far from the
start of the level? Well, the same applies to `Wolfendoom'. Each level has
been designed to allow for the fact that you may be starting off with no
more than a pistol and eight rounds of ammo. You'll find that most levels
have a chaingun hidden somewhere - the easier levels may have one hidden in
a more remote location, though. Use your ammo wisely, and you should be 
laughing!

     Here's a run down of the `new' first aid and weapons items:
                                           
     First Aid:  
     =========
                 Blue vial        - These things boosted your health in Doom
                                    by a meagre 1%, but in `Wolfendoom', 
                                    they're even better, restoring 4%!
                 Stimpak          - restores 10% health.
                 Medikit          - restores 25% health 
                 Blue Life Sphere - equivalent of 1 up in original Wolf.

     Oh yeah! The good ol' blood drinking you may have done in Wolf still
applies. Even puddles of water can help in this way in `Wolfendoom'. ie: if 
your health falls below 10%, running over a pool of blood or water will 
refresh you marginally.

     Weapons:    
     =======
     C'mon, you don't expect any big juicy BFG9000's in `Wolfendoom', do 
you? Or rocketlaunchers for that matter! This IS Wolfenstein, after all, 
you know!

                 Your fist  - equivalent to the knife in original Wolf. 
                              Sorry, but restrictions in image size gave a 
                              smaller image than I'd have liked.
                 Pistol     - same as in Wolf. Looks a little big, but I 
                              wanted to retain graphical detail where 
                              possible.
                 PCU        - "What the hell is this?" I hear you ask! Well,
                              what could I change the machine gun from Wolf
                              into? Shotguns aren't rapid fire, chainsaws 
                              aren't long range, plasma rifles fire streams
                              of visible blue plasma into the distance, etc
                              etc. None seemed suitable replacements for the
                              ol' machine gun from Wolfenstein. So, forgive
                              me, I adlibbed! Don't fret, I've tried to give
                              it a `Doomish' look! PCU is short for `Plasma
                              Conversion Unit'- my explanation for this is
                              that UAC were developing a very crude plasma
                              rifle to combat the creatures from the `Doom' 
                              dimension. This weapon takes standard type
                              ammunition, but converts each shot fired into 
                              a quick burst of plasma energy! Primitive 
                              compared to the plasma rifle in Doom, but, 
                              then, this is supposed to be a prototype, OK?!
                              As such, I made it look completely different
                              to any other weapon you've encountered. 
                              (Making it look like a plasma rifle would only 
                              cause disappointment, as, when using it, you 
                              wouldn't see any streams of blue plasma 
                              shooting off into the distance).
                              If you don't like it, stiff!
                 Chaingun   - Same type of thing as original Wolf.

     TREASURES:
     Well, there was no treasure to collect in Doom, only artefacts.
And, no artefacts to collect in Wolfenstein, only treasures. So, some of the 
artefacts from Doom have been made into the treasures of `Wolfendoom'! If 
you've read the storyline through, you'd know the bit about those mysterious 
skulls appearing around the place. Of course, these skulls act as keys in 
Doom, but, in `Wolfendoom', these skulls are valuable Doom collectables! 
And, those helmets that gave you a small armour boost are now only capable 
of giving you a small point score boost.

     Treasures are as follows:
                    Helmet     - 100 points
                    Blue skull - 500 points
                    Red skull  - 1000 points
                    Gold skull - 5000 points

     SECRET AREAS:
     Just as in Wolfenstein, you will have to search for `pushwalls' that
lead to secret areas. If you find yourself running low on health or ammo,
these areas may be your final hope. Sometimes you won't need to search for
them at all, unless you are curious, or wish to find some goodies (and maybe
a few `baddies' as well...). Most levels have quite a few secret areas;
please note that as such you may find it difficult to obtain a 100% secret
ratio at the end of each level.

     ENEMIES:
     Of course, you can't expect to find all the enemies you'd find in Doom
or Doom II. And those that you do find will behave somewhat differently to
how they did in Doom. This IS Wolfenstein, after all! Some enemies, in fact,
wouldn't even be found in Doom at all, but, I put them in to give an element
of surprise. (Besides, it helps make `Wolfendoom' a little more like a new
game rather than just an all out attempt to try and copy Doom using an
inferior product). Don't worry, I've tried to give any new enemies a `Doom'
flavour!

     Here's a run down as to what you may or may not expect to find in
`Wolfendoom':

     UAC troopers        - Remember what your human opponents look like when
                           you play multiplayer Doom over a network or via a
                           modem? Well, in `Wolfendoom', these guys are the
                           UAC troopers. You'll find them guarding all the
                           UAC sites. Be warned, they won't yell a warning!
                           All you'll hear before they attack is the cocking
                           of their rifles! By the way, the rifles they
                           carry are no ordinary rifles. The UAC research
                           team were working on a new weapon to combat the
                           creatures from the Doom dimension. You'll know
                           the difference when you hear them shoot at you!
     Former humans       - Nope, they looked too shitty when reduced down to
                           the size required for Wolfenstein.
     Imps                - Plenty of 'em!
     Lost souls          - There's a few of these `flying' around.
     Cacodemons          - Wouldn't be `Doomish' without them!
     Demon Sergeants     - Sorry, I left these guys out in favour of their
                           cousins, the spectres (below).
     Spectres            - Those half invisible demon sergeants. Quite a few
                           of these here and there.
     Mancubus            - Those fat boys from Doom II. They might not shoot
                           fireballs in `Wolfendoom', but they still pack a
                           mean punch!
     Heavy Weapon Dude   - Those chaingun wielding mongrels from Doom II. I
                           remember putting a few of these around.
     Baron of Hell       - I seem to remember one of these, somewhere...
     Archvile            - C'mon, how could I put one of these in? Even if I
                           did, it wouldn't bring things back to life. And
                           what would I have it do? Shoot fireballs?
     Pain Elemental      - As for the Archvile. What would I have it do?
                           Shoot fireballs instead of Lost Souls?
     Revenant            - Sorry, I left these out. Didn't look too crash
                           hot when reduced down to the required size.
     Cyberdemon          - Sorry, but reducing this down to the size
                           required for Wolfenstein resulted in too much
                           loss of graphic detail. I felt it was better to
                           have no cyberdemon at all instead of having a
                           shitty looking one.
     Spider Demon        - Same as for the cyberdemon.
     Arachnotron         - Hmmm, you won't find one of these. Well, at least
                           not in the normal sense, anyway...
     Surprise nasty      - You'll know what I mean when something unusual
                           starts attacking you! This'll stop you from being
                           too cocky in the future!!! But don't worry too
                           much - these things are really just full of shit!
                           (You'll know what I mean when you kill one!)
     Invincible nasties  - Remember those pacman ghosts from the Episode 3
                           secret level in Wolfenstein? Well, I won't say
                           what they are now! With the exception of UAC6,
                           you'll probably only find these things in a few
                           of the secret levels, as they cannot be killed,
                           and prevent the player from achieving a 100% kill
                           ratio at the end of a normal level. Expect these
                           things, where ever they are now, to come out of
                           nowhere!

     SKILL LEVELS:
     Like the original Wolfenstein, `Wolfendoom' should be reasonably easy
for those playing on skill levels "Can I Play Daddy" and "Don't Hurt Me".
"Bring 'em On" is the normal standard difficulty level, but I've made "Death
Incarnate" a pretty tough challenge for those who like a bit of mayhem. Not
that all you Doomheads will find it difficult! (Typical doomhead: "C'mon,
that was EEEEEEEZZZZIIEEEE!!!")
     
     My challenge to you is; play through each episode without cheating!
I've done it on "Death Incarnate", but then, I know the layout of each
level, don't I? 

     SOUNDS: (This applies to soundblaster users)
     Most enemies make similar sounds to what they would in Doom. But, due
to some restrictions I had in changing some of the sounds, a few creatures
may sound different. Some sounds (such as the sound of the enemy shooting at
you) are intentional, mainly because I liked the effect it had. Anyway, just 
remember, when you hear a particular growl, it might not be what you expect
it to be!

     EPISODES:
     Finally, what follows is a brief rundown on each episode. Oh yeah, I 
suppose I'm being a bit of a wank in doing this, but what the hell, I've 
taken the liberty to give each level a name, keeping in tradition with Doom 
and Doom II!
     




     EPISODE 1 - UAC1: The First Encounter
     UAC1 is of course your former UAC workplace. You'll have to find the
key your newly acquired friend threw into the bushes outside near the main
entrance, and then enter the site and find the portal that will take you
through to your first encounter with the denizens of `Wolfendoom'.

     Objective: Find and enter the `exit' portal from the final level. This
should transport you back to the UAC site and close off the portal from UAC1
for good!

     By the way, the secret level in Episode 1 has huge secret areas that
have absolutely nothing to do with Doom or Wolfenstein whatsoever. Please
forgive me, after all, I am an Essendon supporter! (Should `Wolfendoom' ever
somehow make its way outside of Australia, I'll explain: I'm referring to
Australian rules football, one of the most exciting brands of football
anywhere in the world! If you haven't heard of it, check it out!)

     Episode 1 level 1:  UAC1 Offices
                         Ahh, it's a Sunday, looks like all the office
                         workers are at home. I wonder if they've got Doom
                         installed on any of those computers? No time to 
                         find out though, too many UAC troopers!
               level 2:  UAC1 Freight Storage
                         So this is where you got hit on the back of the
                         head whilst poking around in the main stores area.
                         Be more careful this time!
               level 3:  UAC1 Portal 1
                         Ahah! The Research Department! Time to find the
                         portal within, and enter the `Doom' dimension!
               level 4:  Back Alleyways
                         Be careful here. Just when you think you've cleared
                         the area, along comes another nasty!
               level 5:  Nasty Finish!
                         Well, actually, the start of this level's not too
                         nice, either. But, the finish, well, make sure 
                         you've found that chaingun!
               level 6:  Four Quarters
                         A simple enough level, divided into four distinct
                         portions. If you find this difficult, you're a real
                         loser!
               level 7:  Cacodemon Fun
                         Self explanatory. You'll have to survive a bit of a
                         gauntlet before playing with the Cacos, though! In
                         fact, I could have called this level "crossfire",
                         but decided to save that title for another level.
               level 8:  Halls Of Hate
                         Couldn't think of what else to call this one! Just
                         seems that wherever you go, there's something out
                         to kill you.
               level 9:  The Exit Portal
                         You can see it in the distance behind those marble
                         columns, but getting to it won't be so simple.
               level 10: Is Don, Is Good!
                         This is for all those bloody Carlton supporters out
                         there! I hope these Bombers kick your ass!





     EPISODE 2 - UAC2: The Baron's Realm
     Luckily, you've managed to find an out of the way entrance into the
site at UAC2. This is where you start off from in Episode 2.

     Previous incursions into the `Doom' dimension from UAC2 by UAC troopers
met with disaster upon reaching the final level, which is guarded by a
formidable foe. Welcome to the Baron's Realm!

     Objective: Kill the nasty in level 9, what else?

     Episode 2 level 1:  UAC2 Stores
                         Let's just say that on this level, you'll get away
                         with a little noise. But keep firing that weapon
                         and you'll start attracting a LOT of attention!
               level 2:  UAC2 Stores\Administration
                         Don't disturb those troopers near the start! Just
                         creep quietly around behind them and search for
                         some goodies before making a sound!
               level 3:  UAC2 Administration
                         Oh well, just another day at the office. For a
                         mercenary, that is.
               level 4:  UAC2 Portal 2
                         I've heard that some poor souls have gotten lost in
                         this portal. Maybe you can help them find their way
                         out...
               level 5:  Secrets Await!
                         Some nice goodies hidden in some large secret
                         areas. But you'll have to fight for them!
               level 6:  Ssssh - or die!
                         Making a racket at the start of this level could
                         draw attention...
               level 7:  Old Drainways
                         Old, derelict, slimy drainways. The only things
                         that could possibly inhabit these are some poor
                         lost souls.
               level 8:  The Passage
                         This level can be a real bastard! Can you survive
                         the Passage?!!!
               level 9:  Baron's Realm
                         You've been invited to dine with the Baron. You're
                         the main course! (Yeh, OK, it's a corny
                         description!)
               level 10: UAC2 Secret stores
                         Ahah! A secret UAC storage area! And, some nice
                         secret areas, too...





     EPISODE 3 - UAC3: Dimension of Traps
     You managed to find an old laneway that leads to an area outside the
Main Stores at UAC3. You start this episode looking out across a large open
area towards the Main Storage building.

     Like the `Doom' dimension of UAC1, the final level of this `Doom'
dimension has an `exit' portal somewhere. The team of UAC troopers that
penetrated this final level had communicated that they'd killed a huge 
beast, yielding a key that enabled them to access yet another area which 
housed a second key; the key to the `exit' portal area. As they made their 
way towards this `exit' portal area, they had radioed, prematurely as it 
turned out, success in their mission. They were never seen, or heard from,
again. Something, somehow, had stopped them.

     Objective: Make your way to the final level within the `Doom'
dimension, but beware of some nasty traps along the way! Once at the final
level, find and enter the `exit' portal, but take extreme caution. You don't
want the same fate as fell upon the UAC troopers to fall upon you!

     Episode 3 level 1:  UAC3 Main Store
                         A huge storage complex. 
               level 2:  UAC3 "Deja Vu"
                         Ever had that feeling that you've `been here
                         before?'
               level 3:  UAC3 Portal 3
                         Ahh, some treasure! WHAT the hell?! Something just
                         shot me!
               level 4:  Double Whammy
                         Just when you think you've made it through to the
                         end of this level, you get hit with a double dose
                         of a rather nasty Doom denizen.
               level 5:  Nasty Start!
                         Shit! No sooner do you get started and you've been
                         spotted by a very nasty creature!
               level 6:  Twisted Lanes
                         Twisted laneways interspersed with twisted enemies.
                         And that's only the first half of this level!
               level 7:  Crossfire!
                         Do the wrong thing here, and you'll understand
                         the term `crossfire'.
               level 8:  Be Quick or Die!
                         No time to stop and think in this level! Conserve
                         that ammo on "Death Incarnate!"
               level 9:  Never Assume!
                         Just when you think you've got it won, well, never
                         assume victory until you've actually succeeded!
               level 10: HAUNTED!!!
                         Death will haunt you in this level, literally!





     EPISODE 4 - UAC4: Great Balls o' Fire!
     Scaling a fence along a remote portion of the perimeter, you find
yourself standing in a small yard that accesses the UAC4 site. Episode 4
commences here.

     Whatever it is that lurks in the final level of the `Doom' dimension
from UAC4, it's a real scorcher!

     Objective: Eliminate the supreme Doom being that guards the final 
level. Once again, take caution in all areas of this `Doom' dimension, as
the odd deathtrap awaits!

     Episode 4 level 1:  UAC4 Portal 4
                         Do you have a habit of just rushing into the 
                         portals? Well, this portal could cure that habit
                         for you.
               level 2:  Spectres Haven
                         Lots of spectres, plus a few other things, as well!
               level 3:  Bluekey Trap
                         There's something guarding the blue key. Bang! It's
                         dead! BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG! You're dead!
               level 4:  They're Coming!
                         Who's coming? Well, hang around too long at the
                         start of this level, and you'll see. Better get
                         cracking before it's too late!
               level 5:  Hell's Pit
                         One day I'll make this into a proper Doom level,
                         with the centre being the lowest point, and
                         building up in height as you go outwards. Then it
                         really would be a pit!
               level 6:  Deathtrap
                         Ahhh, a simple, but if you're not careful,
                         devastatingly dangerous, deathtrap awaits you here.
                         Oh, and a toilet in case you almost wet your pants!
               level 7:  The Octagonal
                         The centre of this level radiates out into eight
                         directions. Trouble is telling which way you've
                         already been!
               level 8:  Quadrant X
                         Exploring the outskirts of this level is necessary
                         before entering the X shaped centre. Then four main 
                         areas to check out. Easy.
               level 9:  The Vile One
                         I wonder what this refers to?
               level 10: Spiral Nitemare
                         'round and 'round and 'round we go. Where it ends,
                         only Death knows!





     EPISODE 5 - UAC5: Doom Blitzkrieg
     Finding an entrance to this UAC site won't be easy, but there is a
sneaky way you have found that takes you into a basement level. This is 
where you start off from in Episode 5. 

     This episode has what I feel are some of the most `Doomish' levels
you'll encounter in `Wolfendoom'.

     Objective: Use the earlier levels for practice. You'll need it for the
final onslaught that awaits you in level 9! Survive this, and you win!

     Episode 5 level 1:  UAC5 Doom Vault
                         Rumour has it that the military have built a huge
                         fortified holding area for housing creatures from
                         the `Doom' dimension. Rumour also has it that this
                         area is somewhere in this level. Well, you don't 
                         need to worry about this rumour, of course. You can
                         just exit this level quite easily and continue on 
                         in your mission to find the portal to the `Doom'
                         dimension. But then, there may be something worth
                         finding, mightn't there? Maybe you'll just never
                         know...
               level 2:  UAC5 Portal 5
                         Ahh yes, I like this portal. Gateway to some 
                         interesting areas. I wonder where that Cacodemon
                         came from?
               level 3:  Five by Five 
                         Five times five equals twenty-five. That's the
                         number of little buildings that make up this tidy
                         little town.
               level 4:  Centre Court
                         This is one of my favourite levels. A nice `Doom'
                         flavour (well at least I think so). Easy start,
                         like shooting rats in a barrel! And what's that
                         unusual message near the blue key? Yeah, I guess I
                         agree with it!
               level 5:  Danger Within
                         Slow and easy. That's the only way to survive this
                         level. Unless you're a complete Doomhead.
               level 6:  The Four Tests
                         Getting through this level doesn't require you to
                         enter every area. But that last room containing
                         the elevator, well, I hope you're on "Can I Play 
                         Daddy!"
               level 7:  Centre of Death
                         Now I wonder what's in that room in the middle of
                         this level? Clue: the blue key is in there.
               level 8:  Looks safe, eh?
                         Yeah, it does look safe at the start, doesn't it?
                         Can't make it that easy, though!
               level 9:  Anyone Home?
                         Where is everyone? Oh, THERE they are!
               level 10: Survival Test
                         Quick thinking, and quick moving, will be needed
                         to survive this nightmare!





     EPISODE 6 - UAC6: The Ultimate challenge
     According to what your former UAC Research Department friend had told
you, the portal at UAC6, the first portal opened, has become increasingly
unstable. Some creatures have reportedly passed through the portal from the 
`Doom' dimension into the UAC site itself. UAC troopers have so far managed
to eliminate these creatures, but, just the same, take caution when moving
through this UAC site.

     One other hazard exists in the `Doom' dimension from UAC6, possibly the
most dangerous foe yet encountered. It takes the form of a deadly spectre
like entity - silent, fast, and totally invisible! If you're lucky, you may
see the slightest of shimmering on the ground caused by light diffusing as
it passes through this being. These entities CANNOT BE KILLED.

     Fortunately, though, these things are not yet free to roam the levels
within the `Doom' dimension - they are trapped within an enclosed area. They
cannot be released unless you deliberately let them out. Unfortunately,
though, the key required to proceed onwards to the next level is often
located in the same enclosed area as these invisible entities! So, when you 
see the blue access key in a particular area, do NOT access that area 
straight away. Plan your escape route before you let this dreaded guardian 
of the key out! Then grab the key and RUN!

     Objective: Possibly the most dangerous mission yet. Take extreme
caution in each level. Luckily, not all levels have an invisible entity, but
that doesn't mean you can afford to slack off! The guardian of the final
level has to be destroyed to end the Doom nightmare for once and for all.
But this guardian has its own unique form of protection. 
     
     * Please note that a 100% kill ratio is not attainable at the end of
those levels with an invincible nasty. 

     Episode 6 level 1:  UAC6 Main Entry
                         Hell, just stroll right in through the main entry.
                         Things couldn't be easier!
               level 2:  Aftermath
                         Hmmm, seems like you've missed all the action. Or
                         have you? Damn it, you'll have to waste time
                         finding secret pushwalls to get at that key.
               level 3:  Inner Portal
                         You're not quite in the `Doom' dimension in this
                         level. Something to do with the instability of this
                         portal, I suppose.
               level 4:  Silent Death
                         Named after the invisible entity within. I'm
                         feeling generous, so here's a tip; see those 
                         spectres at the start? Shoot them as soon as
                         you start this level, otherwise they might annoy
                         you later on. I just know I'll kick myself later
                         on for giving such good advice!
               level 5:  Go In, Get Out!
                         Do exactly as it says. Go in towards the centre
                         of this level, and then get the hell out of there!
               level 6:  The Fortress
                         Plenty of ammo, plenty of first aid. You'll
                         probably need it...
               level 7:  Not Over Yet!
                         It certainly isn't over yet! That chaingun is
                         smokin'!
               level 8:  EARN The Right!
                         You'll have to prove your worth to take on the
                         beast of the final level.
               level 9:  666
                         Survive this level on "Death Incarnate" without
                         cheating, and you're a true champ! No, it's not
                         impossible to do. All my levels are `winnable',
                         if you're good enough, that is!
               level 10: Daniel's Domain
                         This level is named after my 9 year old son, who
                         designed it. I have nothing to do with it what so
                         ever! All I did was to make sure the start and end
                         of this level married up with the levels before and
                         after it. He used Mapedit version 8 to create it, I
                         just imported it. See if you can outsmart the
                         devious mind of a 9 year old!
                         Oh, by the way, level 7 of Episode 1 (Cacodemon
                         Fun) was also largely influenced by a design of
                         my son. He was responsible for the way those first
                         Cacodemons you meet welcome you via those little
                         zig zag tunnels. Except he'd have 8 Cacodemons
                         coming to say hello. I'm not that nasty.

     One final word. Most of these new levels are rather large in size, but
not many are mazelike in construction. Unfortunately, Wolfenstein never had
an automap function, so I avoided making the levels too confusing. That's
not to say you won't get lost on the odd occasion, but it should be easy to
find your way again. A lot of these levels are re-edited versions of earlier
levels I'd made for Wolfenstein, but half of them were made especially for
`Wolfendoom'. I've tried to make it so that every level is possible to 
successfully complete without any form of cheating. I hate it when someone 
creates a level with so many enemies that you don't stand a bloody chance, 
or they hide essential items in places you've got bugger all chance of 
finding. All that does is make things frustrating by slowing down the 
gameplay. Hopefully, I've avoided these problems in `Wolfendoom', although
I must admit that some levels are rather difficult (unless you're an
absolute Doomhead that regularly kicks ass in these kind of games!).

     Well, hope you have fun, and sorry again for the LONG story.txt file!
I'm off to the computer shop to see when Quake is due in!

     Cya for now...
     Steve Walley (AReyeP - pronounced R.I.P  :)
     Victoria, Australia.