
Title: Halten Sie!
Author: Laz Rojas
Email Address: filmman (at) earthlink.net; wolfdoom (at) aol.com
Web sites: http://www.geocities.com/TimesSquare/3744/
http://www.doomworld.com/wolfendoom
Description: 10 levels for Wolf 3D, replacing the first episode

Story: Things were going good for the Allies. Paris had been liberated, the Nazis 
were in retreat all across Europe, and the end of the war seemed finally in sight.


You and two buddies were selected to sneak behind enemy lines on a secret reconnaissance 
mission to prepare the way for the final push into Germany. Penetrating enemy territory, 
you expected to find the Nazis demoralized and in disarray... but instead, you found 
them gearing up for a brand new major offensive that could catch the Allies completely 
offguard and totally turn the tables. Even worse, you and your buddies were captured 
before you could report back what was going on.

That was two months ago, and you've spent the past two months buried deep within 
the bowels of a heavily guarded Nazi prison. Your two buddies are already dead, preferring 
to die at the hands of vicious Nazi interrogators than tell them what they want to 
know. Now it's your turn, and you know that for the sake of the unsuspecting Allies, 
you must live long enough to escape and warn them of the impending Nazi attack. It's 
all up to you. So when they come to your cell to get you, you waste no time. Before 
anyone knows what's happening, there's one dead Nazi guard on the cold floor beside 
you, and his gun is in your hand. But no sooner do you step out into the corridor 
than you hear a shout of "Halten Sie!"... and you realize without a doubt that the 
fate of the free world depends on what you do next.

Installation: Rename your gamemaps.wl6, maphead.wl6, vswap.wl6, vgagraph.wl6 and 
vgahead.wl6 files, then put the files in this archive into your Wolf 3D directory.


If you have any problems with the included vgagraph and vgahead files, just use the 
originals that come with Wolf3D. All the new ones do is replace the title screen.


