^PAGE 1
^c00PROLOGUE
^c001986- During their annual conference, the National Democratic Party of Germany votes on a resolution which would dedicate party resources to influence young people in West Germany through media. The resolution passes overwhelmingly 
^PAGE 2
^c001990- German Reunification. During the scramble to buy up the state run enterprises of the former GDR, NDP acquires the infrastructure and broadcast license of the Leipzig based East German television station VolksFernsehenKonnection
which is promptly renamed NationaleFernsehenKonnection or NFK for short. 
^PAGE 3
^c001991- NFK premiers its first efforts at children's programming. The programs "Der Gluckliche Metzger" and "Auslander sind keine Menschen!" prove major commercial and critical flops and bring the network to the brink of bankruptcy. 
Reruns of the Russian cartoon "Nu Pogodi" are the only thing which save NFK from total insolvency. 
^PAGE 4
^c001992- NFK finally achieves a major success with the program "Siegfried der Dinosaurier" an education program for young children which emphasizes good manners, dental hygiene and racial purity. NFK's previous financial woes are quickly
forgotten as Siegfried forms the nucleus of a new media empire. 
^PAGE 5
^c00February 1993- A massive drug raid at a warehouse party in Dresden yields 1200 MDMA pills stamped with the likeness of Siegfried the dinosaur. NFK executives quickly take note of the characters crossover appeal. 


June 1993- NFK executives gain controlling interest in Munich based pharmaceutical company Sinneslochen 
^PAGE 6
^c00November 1993- Sinneslochen launches a new line of children's cough medicine, Siegfried Plus. The brand is distinguished by use of the character in advertising and by the fact that it contains twice as much Dextromethorphan as the  next leading brand, with no acetaminophen,
bitterants or other adulterants to discourage abuse. 
^PAGE 7
^c00January 1994- NFK and Sinneslochen obtain sponsorship of Elektronika 94, Germany's premier EDM festival. Though a massive success, the festival attracts some controversy after an actor portraying supporting 'Siegfried' character DJ
uses a firehose to spray festival goers with a mixture of cough syrup and grape soda. The character is quietly dropped from the program shortly after. 
^PAGE 8
^c00March 1994- With elections to the Bundestag looming, NFK begins broadcasting content promoting the NDP candidates. This comes to a head when party chairman Gunter Deckert dons leiderhosen for an appearance on the Siegfried program. 
^PAGE 9
^c00May 1994- Rival children's entertainer "Milchmadchen Mia" makes an appearance at a SPD event in Berlin where she denounces NFK's use of children's characters to promote fascism and xenophobia. Three days later, Mia is shot dead during
an appearance at a local library. Two teenagers are apprehended at the scene. Several empty bottles of cough syrup 
and an illegal handgun are recovered. The suspects later commit suicide while in custody. Markings on the gun 
allow federal police to trace it to a Soviet arms depot in Ukraine which burned down under suspicious circumstances in 1991. 
^PAGE 10
^c00July 1994-  Popular children's character Lucas the Bear is killed at a traffic light in a motorcycle drive-by. Competing stations quickly put their children's programs into syndication, leaving NFK and Siegfried to dominate the market.
^PAGE 11
^c00August 3rd, 1994- Siegfried makes a public appearance at a NDP rally in Nuremberg to an attendance of thousands where he officially endorses the NDP program. Analysts subsequently project an NDP sweep of the upcoming elections. 
^PAGE 12
^c00August 16th, 1994- Veteran childrens entertainer Freundlicher Bibliothekar Friedrich arrives in Leipzig by train. He is last seen outside NFK's national operations center.....
^PAGE 13
^c00You are Fredrich the friendly librarian, friend to all children and retired antifascist partisan. Your mission: To save both children's entertainment and German parliamentary democracy! Armed only with a knife and a P38 captured during
the war, You've got five floors of hell to get through! Good luck, Fredrich!
^PAGE 14
^c00POWER PLAYER TIPS AND TRICKS
^c00 * The quality of machine tools has increased dramatically since the war. Any chainguns you come across will NEVER jam!
	 * Bombers are just as dangerous to their allies as they are to you! Use this to your advantage whenever possible.
	 * Unlike candy bars, cough syrup and painkillers will take your health above 100 percent when used. 
     * In fact, chugging cough syrup is just a good idea in general if you're bored or have a project to finish. Try it!
	 ^PAGE 15
^c00CREDITS
^c00 * Barneystein sprites and textures by PC-Crap
	 * Wood panel and Citadel textures 
	 by AReyeP and MCS
	 *Barney Doom sprites by David Lobster
     * Various sprites by Chris Chokan
	 Programs used in the creation of 
	 The Purple Reich
	 *ChaosEdit by Chaos Software
	 *Goldwave
	 *Havoc's Wolf3d Editor
	 *Adobe Photoshop 7.0
	 *Slade by sirjuddington
	 *Tuxguitar by Julian Gabriel Casadesus 
	 
	^PAGE 16
^c00MUSICAL CREDITS
^c00"Money For Nothing"
	performed by Dire Straits
	"Beavis and Butthead Theme" 
	Written by Mike Judge, 
	Arranged By Zanu-AF
	"Siegfried the Dinosaur Theme"
	Arranged by Zanu-AF
	"Ich tu Dir Weh"	"Amerika"  "Hilf Mir"					
	"Ich Will" "Ein lied" "Sex"
	Arranged and performed live by Rammstein
									    	
	  
      
	 
^E