The Final Fight is my ninth annotated Wolfenstein addon. I also hope to eventually 
complete a revised version of the annotated Coming of the Storm, which would include 
all floors, rather than just selected ones.

For those new to my annotated versions, this is what I do:

1) I attempt to complete each floor of the addon episode with 100% rates in Kills, 
Secrets, and Treasure. All episodes are played at the 'I am Death Incarnate' difficulty 
level.

2) I play the entire floor at maximum Health at all times. If I can kill all of the 
opponents while maintaining, in this case, 110% Health, I save the game and advance. 
If some Heath loss occurs, I try again from the previously saved position. This allows 
me to leave behind as many as possible of the Health powerups.
I acquire the BJ Health globes, however, because they count towards the Treasure 
score.

3) I save each floor at the elevator leading to the next floor. Where there is a 
secret elevator, both elevators are saved for that floor.

4) I save the point on a floor at which a Boss is encountered.

5) I use the Knife as my primary weapon, so as to leave behind as much Ammo as possible 
when I complete the floor. Opportunities to use the Knife are also important if one 
has been killed and weaponry is reduced to the Remington .45 and 10 rounds of Ammo.


Obviously, there are some scenarios where one cannot use the Knife, such as when 
battling some of the Mutants, or a Boss.  Judicious use of the Knife also allows 
one to expend a lot of Ammo in key situations, while still carrying a full compliment 
to the next floor. I also find the game a lot more challenging when the minimum amount 
of firepower is used. 

These are my intentions, when creating an annotated edition:

1) To acknowledge the time and efforts of the addons' creators by creating supplemental 
files.

2) For those players who attempt to beat the par time score, it allows them to walk 
through a completed floor, without risk of confrontation, to get an idea of where 
they will encounter enemy opposition, and where those enemies can be killed without 
loss of Health points.

3) To get an idea of where the secret areas are located, so playing time is not lost 
while testing the perimeter walls.

4) To allow players to select a specific floor to play, with full Health, Ammo, and 
Weapon compliments. 

I often chose to play a specific floor from a particular episode without saving the 
game in transit; the goal being to find the elevator before being killed, without 
regard to loss of Health or Ammo, or acquisition of Treasure, (Wolfenstein is always 
more fun when played entirely in real time, without any saving). 

Other times, I like to do battle with a particular Boss, and not have to complete 
more than nine floors first. 

I am hopeful that you will find these saved games and notes to be a valuable supplement 
to your gaming experience when tackling the challenges of The Final Fight. This is 
a great mod with many difficult scenarios, and it becomes more difficult with each 
floor and episode.
