			  "ASSASSINATE HITLER"
		       Version 1.11+ (edited by C.C.)
			    By: Gary Ragland

Thank you for downloading "Assassinate Hitler". This is unlike any other
Wolfenstein add-on episode in that it contains 20 consecutive levels. 

First off, the storyline: As you can tell from the title of the game, the 
object is obviously to search for and terminate Adolf Hitler as the Third 
Reich crumbles around him. He fled to his secret bunker when Allied forces 
marched into Berlin, and until now the location of this bunker was unknown. 
Intellegence has discovered that he is hiding in a bomb-proof bunker located 
underneath an ancient castle. The first 10 levels of the game constitute the 
castle portion of the game, and the last 10 levels represent the bunker.

From the menu where it asks which episode to play, select the only choice, 
the fifth one down which says "Assassinate Hitler". You can select the 
others, but they wont work right.

You can play the first 10 levels as you normally would for any Wolfenstein 
levels. At this juncture is where you have to do the one thing which will 
allow the game to run 20 levels consecutively. Instead of a switch in the 
elevator on Level 10, there is a red sign with a password at the bottom. 
Make sure you remember this password, write it down if you have to, and SAVE 
your game from Level 10 in the LAST SLOT  (the last slot should only be used 
for this purpose). A new option will appear in the A.H. Menu once you leave.

Don't e-mail me if you have problems with getting the NEXT LEVELS, this
version has been modified to fit the Chokage Menu Environment. Ask C.C.
if you have problems with it.

Overall, this game has 20 levels. They're similar in style to the regular
Wolfenstein/Spear of Desitny levels, except that they are more difficult in 
most cases. The music has been changed around a little too. Level 20 has a 
new song which is in the original Wolfenstein program, but is never actually
used in the game.  

Also, only the first 8 levels have par times, but those par times are correct 
for those levels. Each level from Level 9 on, will give you a 15,000 point 
bonus when it is completed.

Some levels of interest:

  Level 4 - Very castly design. You can see outside all the way around. One of 
	    the first levels I ever designed for Wolf.
  Level 8 - "The Dog Pound" FULL of dogs and just dogs. You'll have to use 
	     your knife a lot.
Level 14 - First room is kinda tough on Death Incarnate!
Level 15 - The drain network of the bunker. Twisting tunnels and oil drums 
	   blocking your way.
Level 20 - Hitler is waiting for you here. A very dramatic and difficult 
	   climax! You're in for a fight!!!

The only known bug I've found in the game is that sometimes when you die, the 
game ceases with an "Out of Memory" message. As long as you saved your game 
(highly recommended!), just re-enter the program and load your game. This 
doesn't happen too often though. If you do find any other bugs in the levels
themselves, please e-mail me.

Well, that's about it. This is different from other add-ons, so if you do 
have questions or problems, just e-mail me and I will try to help you out.

      Website:  http://members.tripod.com/~gdr2/index.html
      E-mail:  gragland@ix.netcom.com

Please send ANY comments you have about the game as well.

ARNOLD: "Okay Gary, how you do beat level one?"
BUFF:   "Shutup Arnold you stupid Moron!"

Coming next....
  A similar add-on with about 50 levels where you will battle the
  Ubermutant and Dr. Schabbs! (maybe C.C. will make both A.H. and the
  Schabbs one in a Double Pack to save room and for twice the fun!!!)

Also Check out the Highscores contest on Gary's page. Press "4" at the 
'Assasinate Hitler Menu' to make and send your Best Scores and Times 
to Gary Ragland.

Good Luck.

Now go fry Hitler!
