
        Ok guys, I was getting bored of the old graphics of the game for
 Wolfenstein, which is why I decided time to make a graphics and map
 version totally different and verging on impossible, this is mainly 
 because even nitemare got old quickly(great job to the Enigma guys).

 NOTE: It is not my fault that I couldn't change the maps, I couldn't 
 find a usable map editor *sigh*.

      What you see in this version is totally different graphics from any
 other source(I handmade all of it). Among the new features (these are most 
 of them, but there still are a few surprises(hopefully pleasant)) are:

        -Knife has longer blade, and when you swing it blood spurts on the
          end, slightly unrealistic if you swing it in a unoccupied room.
        
        -Pistol had luminescent(sp?) sight.

        -Machine gun and Minigun both have laser dot sights(for sighting
          purposes).

        -All firearms now shoot flechettes, and have better "flash 
        suppressors", hence there is a lot less muzzle flash, though you
        see the rounds for a short period. Flechettes in tight groups 
        literally rip targets to pieces, and can cause a whole right through
        someone.

        -Wolf now has a little branded swastika on rump, and bleeds more 
        heavily + Now when it bites blood comes out of mouth.

        -Dumb soldiers now have green helmets and boots, soon they will
          be totally camoflaged(in next ver).

        -SS men more realistic--now when they fire you see used shells
          falling out of their machine guns.

        -Ditto with Hans + he now has red hair and red eyes.

        -Scenery has been modified, nothing that special, just to get you 
          in the mood.

        -Keys have been modified, now it gets a tad more confusing.

        -Plot has been changed, now you are still a prisoner, but Hitler
          was never born due to the invention of abortion clinics ( see
          not all abortions are that bad *wink*), but that doesn't mean
          that life never has twisted ideas--An American business man 
          came from the U.S. and did pretty much what Hitler did, except
          after seeing the swastika(state law) on all the dogs, he got sick
          of it, and destroyed all swastikas. Unlike Hitler he didn't care
          at all how things look so he let castle Wolfenstein go to ruins.
          Several years of rein later after his victorious war he started
          selling drugs...     
                                ... It is you mission for humanity to STOP
                                                HIM !!!
 
         For questions, or comments please email me at GBUSSED@KUHUB.CC.UKANS.EDU,

         any abusive and/or abrasive comments/criticizism will most likely be ignored.


 CREDITS: I want to thank Bill Kirby for his excellent editor program for graphics, 

   and Jon Lane of Lawrence, Kansas-- if it weren't for his twisted mind I wouldn't 

   think of one third of all the graphics...  HAIL JON LANE!!! *smile*
 
 DISCLAIMER: I AM NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY DAMAGE CAUSED BY THIS GRAPHICS FILE,
        IT HAS BEEN TESTED WITH VERSION 1.4 AND WORKED GREAT, IF IT CAUSES ANY 
        PROBLEM WITH YOUR VERSION, PLEASE MAIL ME SO I CAN CHANGE THIS FILE TO
        INCLUDE INCOMPATIBILITIES. 

