 
 Introduction  

After the release of the Source Code and the numerous editors, the game seems to 
become more and more popular.
Add-ons with even better graphics and cooler levels and amazing code alterations 
come out.
And with the editor's dream, FloEdit, the Wolfenstein fanatic can get even more out 
of little Wolfy.
These new options gave me the opportunity to create my project and release it on 
the 'Net.
This took about 2 years. I worked very hard on my project. You've just downloaded 
the result.

Thanks for downloading The Final Solution, a new game for Wolfenstein 3D. This manual 
will 
introduce you to the story and many new features of this game, as well as other helpful 

things to survive in this serious and deadly mission in the cold mountains of Austria 
with
its many castles. Good luck and enjoy the game!

Also, please DO NOT contact ID Software and/or Apogee Software when coming
across problems, they will NOT provide you with support for modified games.

 The Story 

Germany, Autumn 1942. As the German Army continues it's advance deep
into Soviet territories and the Ukraine, German U-boats have started
the blockade of Britain. Lots of convoys are intercepted by Germans and
are taken over or destroyed. Britain seems to get starved out. 
The Allied High Command has no retort; more and more British
freighters get destroyed by German U-boats. The Gestapo
(Geheime Staats-Polizei, Secret Police of State) is now patrolling
German occupied countries with even more effective escorts,
inflicting heavy losses on the Allies. Nevertheless, the Allied
High Command orders more and more soldiers, with even lower ages,
into battle from their ports in various countries.

The battle for control of the war is turning against the Allies.

Many Allied operations have failed due to many German spies in the Allied
Command and Allied Army. It seems that the Germans have infiltrated MI6.
The Germans know every move the Allies make.

However, the Allies have received word of a secret operation going on in
a mountainious region in the mountains of Austria. This region is chosen
strategically because of the weather conditions in those mountains. It
always snows and the dawn comes at 1:00 PM. This means that nobody can
see that there's anybody here. In the direct neighbourhood of an
abandoned German airfield, Germans have made a network of various
bunkers and castles located in the mountains so that there will be a
pretty fast transport-possibility between the bunkers and castles.
The main installation of the network is a fortress called Festung Adler.
This castle, originally home of many Austrian monarchs, was restorated by
the Third Reich's official architect (Albert Speer) and converted to fortress.
It's nickname is "The Eagle's Nest". It's well named, because you have to
be an eagle to reach it. It lies at 3000 meters above sea-level. There's
no connection with the valley below it, making it the perfect location for
secret operations as it is impregnable. Those who tried to get atop didn't
return. The Allies are uncertain if this was accomplished by the freezing
temperature or any Nazi patrols.

The castles within the network are interconnected by a system of tunnels. Originally 

officiated as airstrike cover, these tunnels connect the various castles with each 
other. 
To eliminate any spies, the entrances of these tunnels are protected by various SS 
and 
Gestapo. To get through these slimey, gooey tunnels, you'll need a few bullets and 
a 
good memory. Various parts of the tunnels look equal, but they are NOT.

The rumored operation currently running is called Endlosung(literally,
Cleaning Mission), led by the Gestapo's main leader, Werner Gelassen, and
the Fuhrer himself. This mission is going to be the biggest one yet. All
Nazi weapons will be used for this mission, including a brand-new
technique manufactured by a mysterious scientist by the name of
Jurgen Schabbs. This man, who is not a Nazi but a scientist who gets
orders of Hitler, has found a way to make dead soldiers live again.
This option means that, if it would be used, the Third Reich will
be unstoppable and unbeatable. However, the soldiers who are revived
do have one little bug in their mechanical brain: they only obey Schabbs.

The experiments of Schabbs are held inside the walls of Festung Adler. No
one can possibly enter it because of the Gestapo controlling each nook and
cranny of the neighbourhood areas and the SS stationed at every entrance
possible. However, there's one abandoned castle in the neighbourhood of the
network. This castle called Hasselhoff, was used at the beginning of the
network-laying, but wasn't that strategical because of the many endless
corridors leading to nowhere. In the basement of that castle is a small
weapon-storage area with only Hitlerjugend-soldiers on duty. The entrance
to this castle is quite hard to find, but crude maps drawn by spies will
give you the location of it. 

Realising that this is the perfect way to get inside The Final Solution-network,

Allied High Command orders you to get in. Your mission includes:

A. The destruction of The Final Solution-Network;
B. The elimination of Schabbs dead minions;
C. The liquidation of Schabbs, Gelassen and perhaps the Fuhrer himself.

And in case you run into other high-ranked officers, liquidate them too.
Be warned that only points A,B and C are neccessary, so don't do anything
stupid. Fight hard in there! Good luck soldier. You'll need it.


Description of the game's levels

The game's levels are divided up in "units", groups of levels with a certain
theme. All the levels in an unit have something to do with each other. 
You don't have to do anything special to end an unit, by the way.


Levels 1-5: Castle Hasselhoff

You begin your mission in an old Prussian castle called Hasselhoff. It is the first 

installation in the network, mainly used for storage of Schabbs' equipment. On floor 
5 a 
boss named Werner Gelassen is waiting for you. He is a Gestapo general with the duty 
of 
protecting the network behind the castle.

Level 6: Tunnel 1

Levels 7-10: Festung Adler

You finally reached "The Eagle's Nest". It lies atop of a mountain which is unaccessable 
from 
the valley below. This stronghold belonged to German monarchs for centuries, but 
now the Fuhrer 
has stamped it as the main installation for the operation. It's your task to run 
enough amok 
here so the stronghold will need a renovation. Be careful, this castle is heavily 
guarded! On 
floor 10 you'll face the Ubermutant, Schabbs' biggest and boldest mutant. Be careful!


Level 11: Tunnel 2

Levels 12-15: Felsendamm Dungeon

The cold wind howls in your ears when you enter the dungeon system Felsendamm, part 
of  Festung 
Adler. Felsendamm, built in 1643, officiates as dungeon for captured spies. While 
being starved 
and tortured, the Gestapo pulls the info out of them. No wonder this place smells 
like death: 
blood, sweat and tears are part of the main smell. These cold, damp floors are protected 
by 
guards and SS. It also covers the Luftburg-bunker, the next installation of the network. 
The 
closer you get to the end, the less humane guards you will encounter...

Level 16: Tunnel 3

Levels 17-20: Luftburg-bunker

When you climb out of the tunnel, you have reached Schabbs' laboratories. Here you'll 
face the 
dreaded mutant scum of Schabbs at last. Watch what you are shooting - there are many 
unarmed 
mutants too! After painstakingly crawling through the bunker, you will reach Schabbs. 
Grinning 
diabolical you check your gear and open the door. It's time to send this maniac to 
the place 
where he belongs, and that's certainly not heaven! Good luck!

Level 0: Contemporary Insanity

In case you'll ever find the secret elevator leading to this level, you can already 
consider 
yourself a winner. I bet, however, that you'll never end the level. I even have trouble 

completing it(believe me, it's really tough without cheating). To end the level, 
you'll have 
to blast down a rather special person...


System Requirements

Since The Final Solution uses it's own graphics and music, there's no need to
own Wolfenstein 3-D. All you need is(minimally) this:

 Processor: 80286 or better;
 Graphics : 256Kb VGA or better;
 Memory   : 580Kb Conventional;
 Hard Disk: Approx. 2.40Mb;
 Sound    : PC Speaker, Sound Blaster or ADLIB.

To Run

1. Log on to your hard drive by pressing C: (where C is the letter of your
hard drive) and press ENTER.
2.  Type CD\TFS3D and press ENTER.
3.  Type TFS3D and press ENTER.

Getting Started

After the title sequence, you'll be presented with the Options Menu. Use
the arrow keys, mouse, or joystick to highlight a desired selection.  
Press the ENTER key, left mouse button, or Fire button to activate that 
option.  The following is a list of options available to you.

 

New Game
You can choose from four different skill levels.

Sound
There are three types of sounds in this game. The program will  automatically
detect if your system is equipped with the appropriate sound board and
default to the best settings.  To activate or deactivate a particular sound,
highlight the appropriate selection and press the ENTER key.

Control
The Control Menu allows you to select and modify an input device for 
playing the game.  In conjunction with the keyboard you may use a mouse,
joystick or a Gravis PC GamePad.

Load Game
Use this to load a saved game.  If you're in a game, you will be asked to 
confirm your choice.

Save Game 
The Final Solution's Save screen provides the Save game slots.  To save 
a game, move to an empty slot (or one you don't mind writing over), type 
in a name and press the ENTER key.  This option will not be available 
unless you are playing a game.

Change View
Depending on the speed of your computer, you may wish to change the 
view area of The Final Solution. For example, reducing the view will increase
the speed of the game.

Read This!
Select this option to read all about this game.

Quit
Select this to quit from The Final Solution and return to DOS.  A prompt 
will appear, asking you to confirm your choice.


 Controlling the Action  

The following is a list of controls and commands for moving and fighting 
within The Final Solution.

Travelling 
The key to playing is learning how to effectively maneuver through the 
castles and their passages.  Once in the game, you'll need to move quickly in 
order to surprise guards and avoid others.

Walking
Use the up and down arrow keys to walk backwards and forwards 
through the various castles.

Run
Hold down the right shift key and the up or down arrow key to run.

Turning
Use the left and right arrow keys to turn.


Fast Turn
Hold down the right Shift key and the left or right arrow key for fast turns.

Strafe
Press the Alt key and the left or right Arrow key to move from side to 
side instead of turning left or right.

Arming Yourself
Once you have more than one gun, you'll want to choose between 
firearms.  The numeric keys 1-4 select a particular weapon.  You cannot 
use the numeric keypad keys for this selection.

1=Knife, 2=Pistol, 3=Machine Gun, 4=Chaingun

You start the game with only a knife and a pistol.  Until you discover 
other weapons, pressing "3" or "4" will have no effect.

Killing the Enemy
To use your weapon, point it toward your adversary and press the Ctrl 
key.  If you are using a machine gun or chaingun, you can hold down 
the Ctrl key for rapid fire.

Doors &  Pushwalls
To open a door, move in front of it and press the spacebar.  It is not 
necessary to actually touch a door before opening it.

Locked Doors
Several doors are locked and will require keys.  The key that opens a 
particular door can be found somewhere on the same floor as the 
locked door.  Using a key requires no additional commands other than 
the spacebar to open a door.

Pushwalls
The installation is full of secret passages that are concealed behind 
pushwalls. To reveal a pushwall, move against a wall and press the 
spacebar. The pushwall will then slide backwards, revealing the 
passage.

Picking Up Stuff
Though the fighting is fierce, there's always time to grab a few trinkets 
or helpful items.  To pick up an item simply walk over it. You're smart 
and will know if you need to take it.  For example, if you're carrying the 
max. ammunition of 200 bullets, you can't pick up more ammunition by 
walking over it.

Getting to the Next Floor
Each floor contains at least one elevator.  Once you find an elevator, 
press the spacebar to open its door.  Then walk into the elevator and 
press the spacebar once again to activate the knife switch and move to 
the next floor.

Key Commands and Shortcuts
The following is a list of key commands used for playing The Final Solution. 

 
Action			Key	
Pause			Pause Key
Read This!               F1
Save			F2
Load			F3
Sound			F4
Change View		F5
Control		F6
End Game		F7
Quick Save		F8
Quick Load		F9
Quit			F10

Weapon Selection
Action			Key
Knife			1
Pistol                      2
Machine Gun		3
Chaingun		4
Fire			Ctrl 
Open door		Spacebar

Movement Keys
Action			Key
Forward		Up arrow
Backward		Down arrow
Left                         Left arrow
Right                       Right arrow
Run                         Shift + any of the keys above
Strafe left		Alt + left arrow
Strafe right		Alt + right arrow

Your Current Status

 

At the bottom of the play screen is a status bar which provides 
information important to the play of The Final Solution.

Floors
There are at least 20 known floors.  The current floor is always indicated 
at the far left of the status bar.

Score
You can gain points by picking up treasure or killing. Every 40,000 
points provide an extra life, so collect those treasures!

Lives
You start the game with three lives.   If you die, you'll restart the current 
floor with a pistol and 12 shots.  You'll also lose the points you earned 
on that floor.

Health 
When you start The Final Solution your Health is 110%.  Each time you 
are hit, your Health will be reduced.  Health is indicated not only in 
percentages, but also in a visual representation located on the status 
bar.  You begin to look increasingly unheathly the more damage you 
take.  If you Health is dropping, you can increase it by grabbing food or 
first aid.

Ammo
Your amount of ammunition is indicated on the status bar.   You can 
carry a total of 200 bullets.  Be sure to pick up the ammo left behind 
when you toast someone.  Run out of ammo and you'll be stuck using 
your knife.

Keys
When you find a key, a representation of that key will be shown in one 
of the four small slots located to the right of the ammo count.
Weapon
A representation of the currently active weapon will be shown at the far 
right of the status bar.

Getting Rewarded

 

When you go to a new floor, a Bonus Screen will tally your performance.  
Hidden rooms located, ratio of kills, and percentage of treasure found 
will be calculated.  Each 100% ratio provides 10,000 extra points.  Also, 
if you beat the PAR times for completing a floor, you'll receive extra bonus 
points.

Items To Pick Up
The Final Solution is packed with items that you'll want and need.  These 
items fall within four major categories:  Healing, Killing and Special Items.

Healing:  Dinners = +10%, First Aid = +25%, Hypos = +10%.

Killing:  Ammo = 4, 8;

Keys:	 Open locked doors and can be found on the same floor as they 
         are needed.

Special Items: One-Ups and treasure.
One Ups: (ball with image of face inside) = Full Health and One Life.
Within secret rooms of the castle are items that give you the extra urge
to keep fighting!

Hints & Strategies

If you are going to survive The Final Solution, you'll need more than a 
trigger finger.

Speak softly and carry a Luger
If you encounter weaker enemies, use your pistol to conserve ammo. 
This method also helps you to keep walking around unnoticed(well, almost).

Don't Rush Into the Room!
If there is only one entrance, let the Nazi guards come out at you.  
They'll often be nice enough to open the doors for you.


Get at an Angle.
It's never smart to run into a room.  Guards are sometimes posted near 
the entrances and stay hidden until you move close to the door.  Go up 
to the door, slide to the side at an angle, and pick the enemy off with 
less danger to you.

Use the Keyboard and the Mouse!
Once you have the game down, try using the mouse and keyboard at 
the same time.  The mouse provides better control for shooting and 
turning.  Also, the Strafe mode is much easier using the second mouse 
button.

Charge!
If you run at someone and shoot them point blank, you are more likely to 
wound them.  Plus, this will provide less time for them to shoot you.

Every Floor Has Hidden Stuff!
If you explore carefully, you'll find extra health and ammo hidden 
everywhere!  Be sure to collect as much treasure as possible.  
Remember that every 40,000 points will provide you with an extra life.  
You'll need it!

Necessary Items Aren't Hidden!
The Nazis may be rude hosts, but they would never hide anything 
necessary to escaping.  Elevators to the next floor can be reached 
through the normal passages. However, this does NOT mean that you don't
need keys to get there! And in addition to reach TOP-FUNCTIONAL floors,
you'll need key 3 or 4 to get into the elevator. 

Don't Be Too Proud to Use Schabbs' medicaments!
After taking too many bullets, it's a wise idea to get help from anywhere.  
Taking Nazi medicaments may be humiliating, but it will provide a small boost to 

your health. 

Use the QuickSave!
The QuickSave!, (F8 key) and QuickLoad, (F9 key) is an easy method of 
improving your survival rate.

Conserve Your Ammo!
Although it's fun to hold down the Crtl key to spit bullets everywhere, you 
should try to restrain yourself.  Conserve ammunition and make your 
shots count.

Don't Attack with a Knife
If armed with only a knife, don't rush into a room that is full of guards 
and expect to come out alive. Spend your time looking for hidden rooms 
which may provide more ammo. The only thing that separates a brave 
man and a dead man is a well-placed bullet.

Secret Floors
Within the castle are secret floors which can only be reached from 
hidden elevators.  Be sure to examine every possible hidden passage 
for the location of these elevators.  Secret floors are extremely 
dangerous, but yield tremendous reward.



Troubleshooting

Memory Problems
If you run The Final Solution and get an "Out of Memory" window, there 
are few things you can do.

Remove TSR (resident) Programs
If you change your AUTOEXEC.BAT to not load TSRs, they won't take 
up memory that The Final Solution needs to run.  We recommend 
temporarily renaming your AUTOEXEC.BAT to AUTO, and your 
CONFIG.SYS to CONFIG.  Then re-boot your computer and restart the 
game.

Load DOS High
If you have at least a 286 computer and extended memory, plus DOS 
5.0, you can load DOS into high memory.  Simply put "DOS=HIGH" in 
your CONFIG.SYS file.  Refer to your DOS Manual for further details.

Other Ideas
The Final Solution will use XMS (extended memory) and EMS (expanded 
memory) if available.  If you have and EMS card or a 386 computer, 
check your system manual for information on how to make this 
available.

Sound Problems
A sound board is not required, but is recommended for playing The
Final Solution. If you are having sound problems here are a few ideas that 
may assist you!

Sound Blaster Address
When you installed your Sound Blaster or Sound Blaster Pro, you may 
have needed to change the default addresses in order to resolve 
possible hardware conflicts.  The Final Solution can work with non-
standard Sound Blaster settings.  However, the program needs to know 
these settings.

To enable the program to obtain your settings, set the "BLASTER" 
environment variable to contain the appropriate information.  To do this 
either include the following in your AUTOEXEC.BAT file or type it on the 
command-line before running The Final Solution:  SET 
BLASTER=AxxxIxDx.

Axxx represents the address of the Sound Blaster/Sound Blaster Pro.  
For the Sounds Blaster, it's either A210, A220, A230, A240, A250 or 
A260.  For the Sound Blaster Pro, it's A220 or A240.  Default is A220.

Ix represents the DMA channel used by the Sound Blaster/Sound 
Blaster Pro.  D0, D1 or D3 are acceptable values.  Default is D1.

Try the default values first.  If one of the values is out of the acceptable 
range, the program will Quit, indicating which of the values wasn't 
acceptable.  Please refer to your Sound Blaster manual for details.

Sound Blaster Pro Volume
You may need to adjust the volume coming from the Sound Blaster Pro.  
You can do this by adjusting the volume wheel or adjusting the volume 
on whatever you have the Sound Blaster Pro attached to, or by using the 
SBP-SET program that came with the Sound Blaster Pro.  If you use the 
SBP-SET program, see the SB Pro User's Manual for details on how to 
use SBP-SET.

Sound Blaster and Gravis PC GamePad Problems
If you have a Gravis PC Gamepad, a second joystick card and a Sound 
Blaster, it is necessary to set the jumper on the Sound Blaster card to 
"On" so that you are using the joystick port on the Sound Blaster.  Refer 
to your Sound Blaster manual for details.

Technical Support
If you require further assistance in running The Final Solution, mail to 
me at tvanputten@yahoo.com . 

How to...

When you'd like to know how I did particular things with the source code, visit my 
Website to 
find out. I will provide you with many in-depth tutorials on my website, besides 
the basical 
things you can read at every site(changing ceiling colors and other basic things). 
It's also a 
good starter for reaching other Wolfenstein 3D pages. Just go take a look!

Sources of this game

I tried to complete this list of sources, but it may be incomplete or give
incorrect information. When you are the author of something I couldn't trace,
please contact me so I can update this section.

I used graphics from :

"WolfenDoom : Spear of Destiny" by Laz Rojas
"Operation : Panzerschiff" by Necrodog Industries
"Return to Danger" by FormGen, Inc.
"Basic Guard" by Necrodog Industries
"Super Walls" by Necrodog Industries
"Doom II" by iD Software
"Conflict in the Fatherland" by B.J. Rowan
"Project Totengraeber" by B.J. Rowan

I used sounds from:

"WolfenDoom : Operation Arctic Wolf" by Laz Rojas
"WolfenDoom: Operation Rheingold" by Laz Rojas
"Doom II" by iD Software
"Operation: Panzerschiff" by Necrodog Industries
"Return to Danger" by FormGen, Inc.
"Conflict in the Fatherland" by B.J. Rowan

I got my documentation from:

"Adolf Hitler" by Christian Zentner
"Das Boot" by Lothar-Gunther Buchheim
"The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich" by William Shirer
"The last days of Adolf Hitler" by H. Trevor-Roper
"De Tweede Wereldoorlog van dag tot dag" by Heideland Orbis

 Copyright Permissions 

Authors MAY use parts of this game(Graphics, sounds, etc.) for their own projects. 

Just give me credit where this is due and let me know about your add-on as soon as 

it's finished and/or uploaded.

You MAY distribute this game in any electronic format as long as it remains
intact and UNALTERED. 

When you want to include this Wolfenstein modification in a collection of
Wolfenstein modifications, wether for sale or otherwise, contact me and
inform me of this intention.

A FINAL WORD

Again, I'd like to thank you for downloading and trying my game. I worked very hard 

on this. I'd like to thank all people who helped me out with this game. 

Special TVP thanx to(not in order of appreciatement):

Martin Bonnet(MCS)
Brian Rowan
Brian Lowe
Kenny Riley

Please let me know what you think wether via email or via my website. I'd appreciate 
it.

Tristan van Putten, author of The Final Solution.
