Episode 5 N Gin's Battleship
for Invasion of the Cartoons 1
By: Ian Summerfield

Level 1: The Galley
New Enemies: Dr. N. Gin-Boss 5
This is a real nice welcoming party, N. Gin decides to see you into his battle ship 
by outlining a path so he can watch your progress. You can attack N. Gin, and Even 
kill him, but he has thought ahead, and Made clones of himself and has plenty of 
ways to kick your butt back to the real world with the unsuspecting citizens of Earth!


Level 2: Engine Room
New Enemies: N/A
This area is too dangerous to pass through, so N. Gin has only put a few clones to 
guard it, though you may get lost. It is actually a maze, but filled with Ed clones.


Level 3: Sleeping Quarters
New Enemies: Rusty Walrus
This area is the first area where you actually fight the new N. Gin clones, but they 
aren't as mean as the other clones. Also, near the end of the level, you meet a new 
threat: Rusty Walrus, whom would like nothing better to do than feed you to the crew 
members!

Level 4: Rusty Walrus
New Enemies: Rusty Walrus 2
Rusty Walrus returns, and is determined to cook you this time! Not only does he return, 
but there are additional clones of him to help catch and cook you!

Level 5: N. Gin's Crowsnest
New Enemies: Dr. N. Gin-Boss 5, Neo Cortex Head 5
Now at the top of the ship, you must fight your way through N. Gin and his clone 
copies to defeat the fifth head!

Boss Strategies: Dr. N. Gin

N. Gin is a difficult boss because there are so many of him, He is basically like 
the Krew boss fight, but the arena is much smaller. Just defeat all you can in the 
first area before moving into the next regions. becareful when using the beakers, 
as they can harm you as well as the N.Gin clones. Also, after you defeat all the 
clones, beware as one of the sheds contains a clone of Eddy in it.

Level 10: First Class
New Enemies: N/A
On your way to the top, you stumbled upon the secret exit didn't you! well now your 
in First class, where you must escape the heavily fortified area and defeat all the 
boss clones in this area. Because all the enemies are bosses, this level can be quite 
difficult, also note that there are no secrets on this level, so no secret prizes 
are to be expected.

End Episode:

N. Gin falls out of his crowsnest to his doom, while the final cortex head explodes 
and destroys the battleship! One more head to go!
And also Try this exciting Episode:
"Episode 6: Nitrus Brio's Citadel" In which, you face Nitrus Brio, the mastermind 
behind the entire plot, Good Luck!

Thanks For Playing!

Ian Summerfield