Episode 6 Nitrus Brio's Citadel
for Invasion of the Cartoons 1
By: Ian Summerfield

Level 1: Black Forest
Bloopers: This level is actually the first level from Spear Resurrection a mod for 
Spear of Destiny.
This level should be familiar to those whom remember Spear Res. Just follow the usual 
route to get to the end, and the exit elevator into the mine shaft.

Level 2: Mine Shaft
Bloopers: This level is from one of my cancelled projects, It was suposed to be the 
first level in the first episode.
This level isn't heavily guarded, but it can get tricky, just stay far from the enemies, 
and you should do fine. Besides, the next level will contain N. Gin and Krew clones 
to make things worse. Also there will be even more trials after that as well.

Level 3: Blockade
Bloopers: Unfortunately, this level is full of enemies. No real bloopers. And there 
are many bosses. Nuff' said.
There are once again 2 paths to take, 1 the path to the exit. 2, the path to your 
doom. Or you could just skiop the entire level completely by going to the secret 
level, which is much harder.

Level 4: Armory
Bloopers: One of the walls in this level is actually different from the others in 
one of the sections. It leads to a secret. But be warned because there are also fake 
copies that lead you to traps.
Yes! One Level to go now before the final boss, but the armory is filled with many 
threats including 2, count them TWO Mr. Krabs clones, that guard the exit! I'd wish 
you good luck, but Luck WON"T help you!

Level 5: Nitrus Brio's Lab
New Enemies: N. Brio-Boss 6, Neo Cortex Head 6
The final challenge, Here at last! The final boss has requested the creation of many 
boss clones to guard his lair, so beware. Just to tell you, there are about 6 enemies 
total on this level including N. Brio and the Cortex Head, the others are a mystery.


Boss Strategies: Nitrus Brio

Unfortunately, he is not a very hard boss to fight, the only problem is surviving 
his 4 minions. After the minions have been defeated, and you have the Blue key, you 
can face N. Brio. N. Brio just attacks by throwing Beakers at you and throwing bullets 
as well. Just be cautious about the beakers and you should do fine.

Level 10: Superclone
Bloopers: This level is the fifth level and first boss in Spear Res. Also this level 
has been featured in some of my other add-ons.
Just beware the boss on this level, Nuff' said.

End Episode:

Nitrus Brio's army falls and his castle starts to crumble. Once outside the estate 
after some close calls, you recieve word that the clones that have made it to Earth 
are all disappearing into thin air. You Did it! You Won! The Invasion is over, with 
most of your body still in tact. Now you can rest and await for a long deserved vacation.

Also heads up for these exciting games also made by me:

"Schabbs an Evil Lunatic" where the evil doctor Schabbs is coming back from the dead 
in Round 2.
"Spongebobstein" where Spongebob takes on the evil armies of Squidward and other 
Spongebob villians and heros.
"Invasion of the Cartoons 2" where You come back to take out the next armada of Evil 
Clones led by Neo Cortex himself.
"Doom Universal Tour Demo" where earth is attacked by an army of demonic invaders 
from Hell.
"Spear Resurrection Master Levels" where BJ takes on the Nazi's in 5 exciting levels.


Thanks for Playing,

Ian Summerfield

PS. Thanks for downloading my add-on and playing it. I really hope you liked all 
6 of the thrilling episodes, as it took me almost a year to finish this add-on. Keep 
Wolfing, and Never stop!