Episode 3 Squid Wars
for Invasion of the Cartoons 1
By: Ian Summerfield

Level 1: Brick to Pineapple
New Enemies: N/A
Now on Episode 3, you must travel to Squidwards main Fortress to stop the Third head 
from releasing clones that will be able to attack the world from the ocean. On this 
level you will meet The Krew Clone once again, He will now appear on all levels after 
the first time you defeated him!

Level 2: Kelp Forest
New Enemies: N/A
Now you must escape the kelp forest seperating you from your next target Squidward. 
But beware, this forest is guarded by only 4 types of enemies Patrick, Kenny, Ed 
and at the end 2 Krew clones. Beware, they won't go down without a fight!

Level 3: The Krusty Krab 2
New Enemies: N/A
Remember Spongebobstein? Well, after Spongebob had his way and destroyed the place, 
it went under remodeling. Now you must escape the new and improved Krusty Krab to 
make it into Squidwards fortress of Doom!

Level 4: Fortress Roundabout
New Enemies: N/A
Now in Squidwards fortress, you must ram past his main forces now in order to reach 
his lair. Also note: that this level is packed with many large groups of monsters 
and with very little health, So be conserative.

Level 5: Squid Arena
New Enemies: Squidward-Boss 3, Neo Cortex head 3
This is it, Squidward's Arena. He has been expecting you for some time now. If you 
wish to face him now, he has gladly laid out plentiful amounts of health for you, 
or you could just use the secret access switch to pull out an even deadlier challenge!


Boss Strategies: Squidward.

Squidward is basically the easiest boss in the game, just grab one of the 3 Vulcan 
Furies and some health. Then just run into the arena and start shooting. If you run 
low on health, just leave the arena and pick up some medical kits to heal yourself.


Level 10: Squidward's Super challenge
New Enemies: Tee hee, you'll soon know!
This is it! One of the hardest level in the game, all you should have to worry about 
is Squidward and his new super death arena. But beware, Squidward was planning for 
this! Also, if you already defeated squidward in Squidward's first Arena, the just 
think of this as Round 2!

End Episode:

Finally, you defeated the evil Squidward and the third Neo Cortex head! But you still 
have to defeat the rest of the heads.
And also play these action packed episodes:
"Episode 4: Feelin' Krabby" In which, you face the evil Mr. Krabs in his Krabby land 
Theme park of Doom!
"Episode 5: N Gin's Battleship" In which, you face the fifth evil, Dr. N. Gin in 
his horrific Battleship of terror!

Thanks for playing,

Ian Summerfield