Episode 2 Tons Of Fun
for Invasion of the Cartoons 1
By: Ian Summerfield

Level 1: Bricks and Mortar
New Enemies: Lois Griffin
Now on Episode 2, you must defeat all the clones and then at the end of the episode, 
Defeat Krew and his Evil Copies of Himself. On this level you meet a new enemy Lois 
Griffin. Don't be concerned that she is the second toughest of the normal guards, 
because she may drop a Vulcan Fury.

Level 2: Holding Area
New Enemies: Marcie
Here is the area where they hold all the clones when they are finished. Lucky for 
you there aren't alot in the cages to deal with. You also Meet Marcie on this level, 
she can be just as hard to kill as Kenny.

Level 3: Labratory / War Factory
New Enemies: N/A
This is the area where the clones are animated, then armed and finally produced. 
There is no Cortex Head here, but there are plenty of guards to make sure you don't 
venture to the fourth floor.

Level 4: War Factory Elevator Area
New Enemies: N/A
Here is the Area Before Krew, This area is stocked with health, ammo, and weapons. 
There is little treasure, but then again you may not be concerned with that.

Level 5: Krew's Babies
New Enemies: Krew-Boss 2, 2nd Neo Cortex Head of 6
Well, You've made it! Prepare for your encounter with Krew and his evil army. Krew 
has developed a new type of cloner, that is being tested fro the first time... ON 
YOU!!! He has made an army of clones thta are exactly like him in every way, his 
army of clones are MUCH smarter than any other clones being developed. Krew however, 
unlike his army, is safely tucked away guarding the Gold key. Just to tell you!

Boss Strategy: Krew

Krew has 2 methods of attack:
1. He launches a fireball that turns you into an undead zombie
2. He drops a power up called: the Beaker thrower, that if not used correctly, can 
cause you serious damage.

The best strategy is by the level walkthrough.

First, turn around to the elevator and activate it to reveal a pushwall and a few 
goodies.
Second, after getting the Peacemaker, go outside and run to the front silo and activate 
the pushwall. by now a few of the clones have spotted you, so run into the silo.

Third, collect the ammo and any health packs you may need and go outside to attack 
the clones that are aware of your presense.
Fourth, after defeating the clones, pick up the beaker thrower which will come with 
2 free beakers and throw them at far away Krew clones.
Fifth, pick up the beakers the clones drop and continue circling the arena and defeating 
the Krew clones. If you need health, just go into one of the 4 silos for some.
Sixth, after defeating all the clones, enter the center bomb shelter to face Krew 
and get the Gold key.

Note: Each clone only takes 1 to 2 beakres to kill, while it takes around 20 bullets 
to kill.

Note: There are also only six levels in this Episode.

Level 10: Entryway
Have you played DooM 2? if so here is My version of the Wolfenstein version of DooM 
Map01.

End Episode:

You did it yet again! You have now defeated Eddy AND Krew. you are 1/3 of the way 
there. But there are still 4 Neo Cortex Heads left to destroy so don't get cockey!

so go onto these other exciting Episodes:
"Episode 3: Squid Wars" you must take down Squidward and his evil army of clones. 
And in:
"Episode 4: Feelin' Krabby" you encounter Mr. Krabs in his new Krabby Land Theme 
Park of DooM!

Thanks for Playing,

Ian Summerfield