Episode 1 Dawn of the Ed
for Invasion of the Cartoons 1
By: Ian Summerfield

Level 1: Storage Area 
New Enemies: Double D clone
This is it the Beginning of the Invasion. Your mission is to destroy the 6 Evil Neo 
Cortex Heads producing the Evil Clone army. You need to make it through the first 
lair guarded by Eddy and his evil clone armada.

Level 2: Forest Lab
New Enemies: Patrick clone, Kenny clone
You have made it to the first part of Eddy's lair. in this area you must learn that 
there are many traps laid before you that WILL need to be solved like Dummies: fake 
clones used to fool you.

Level 3: Red Castle
New Enemies: Ed clone
You've made it inside Eddy's fortress, here you find the last of Eddy's minions that 
you will have to inevitably get used to!

Level 4: Multiple Choice
New Enemies: N/A 
In this level, you are at the peak of Eddy's Fortress, but beware, lest there be 
room for you in the Dummy Hall!

Level 5: Eddy's Lair
New Enemies: Eddy-Boss 1, 1st Neo Cortex Head of 6
This is it! Eddy! He will be your toughest opponent yet! He has a small welcoming 
party before you face him! just beware you will be sorry for messing with him! And 
even if you DO defeat him there is still the little matter of destroying the Evil 
Neo Cortex head pumping out the Clones in this area!

Boss Strategy: Eddy

Eddy has but 3 ways to attack you:
1. He uses his Super Chain gun on you
2. The Ed clones attack you with their Mini Guns
3. The Double D clones attack you with their pistols

The best strategy is to run around the arena and kill all the Double D, and Ed clones 
first, then attack Eddy, every so often with your Vulcan Fury. after a while Eddy 
will go down in his death Murking that Jonny Dropped his face!

Note: there are only 6 levels in this episode, therefore Eddy's Lair is the last 
level 

Level 10: Nothing Doing

In this level you are in a purple maze, you can either leave and skip the prizes 
or go into the horrible arenas that await you!


End Episode:

You did it! the first head has been defeated! but you still have 5 more to go there 
MISTER! get ready and go on to: 
"Episode 2: Tons of Fun" and defeat Krew and his Evil Clone army, to reach the second 
evil Cortex head. And in 
"Episode 3: Squid Wars" you must take down Squidward and his evil army of clones!


Thanks for playing,

Ian Summerfield
