Episode 4 Feelin' Krabby
for Invasion of the Cartoons 1
By: Ian Summerfield

Level 1: Seein' Red
New Enemies: N/A
Now in the main fortress of Mr. Eugene Krabs, you must make it past the many floors 
of this hard-core facility. But there are other dangers in Seein' Red, this level 
is probably one of the easiest in the game. Believe me, This level is just a small 
obstacle compared to the levels ahead. Also note that there is a Krew clone hidden 
on the level to guard a very valuable artifact near the end of the level.

Level 2: Blue Daze
New Enemies: N/A
You hear the door open and you begin the next area. Unfortunately, this is another 
easy-to-do level. But then again, it is a relief compared to what is waiting for 
you in Mr. Krabs' Bunker in Krabby land. also note that this level can be done in 
a hurry as the only enemies on the level are: Double D, Patrick, and Marcie.

Level 3: Purple Dungeon
New Enemies: N/A
Out of the fun house, onto the roller coaster! This level is very well guarded, almost 
all the guards are Ed clones. This level is twice as hard as the last 2 levels combined! 
there are also some areas that will surprise you. Also note that this will be the 
first level that introduces holo walls in Invasion of the Cartoons 1.

Level 4: Krabby Land
New Enemies: N/A
Now you enter the entrance to Krabby Land, the worst theme park in the biz! there 
are many attractions, some of which contain treasures! unfortunately, the keys are 
stuck in the circus tent, and the mirror house. There are also many clones in this 
area, so do be careful!

Level 5: Krabs Arena
New Enemies: Mr. Krabs-Boss 4b, Robo Krabs-Boss 4a, Neo Cortex Head 4
Your now in the main arena of Mr. Eugene Krabs! Unfortunately, not only Does Mr. 
Krabs have a strike force waiting to assist you to your grave, but if you survive 
the force, Mr. Krabs will step into battle in his "Mechanized-Robotic-Kill-Robot-and-Battle-Standardizer" 
or M.R.K.R.A.B.S for short. Beware, your toughest challenge has begun!

Boss Strategy: Mr. Krabs (Robo Krabs)

Mr. Krabs is the Toughest of ALL the bosses in the game, yeah sure. There is a lot 
of health and ammo, but one false move, and He will kill you in just 1 attack. His 
Method of attack is 1 Super Chain gun and 2 Nitro beaker launchers, all of which 
can cause certain death! just stay far away to dodge the beakers and return fire 
with some of your own or use the Peacemaker, either way, the boss will end up being 
difficult.

Level 10: Bloody Paths of Doom!
New Enemies: N/A
This level has 3 different pathes that all lead to the exit, but only 1 has both 
keys in it, in order to get the extra goodies in the vault near the exit. Either 
that or just go through the other 2 paths once to get the keys seperately.

End Episode:

Finally, Mr. Krabs falls down and dies as his body parts disappear into thin air. 
But then again, he was a small obstacle compared to the next challenges.
And also play these Episodes too:
"Episode 5: N Gin's Battleship" In which, you face the fifth evil, Dr. N. Gin in 
his horrific BattleShip of terror!
"Episode 6: Nitrus Brio's Citadel" In which, you face Nitrus Brio, the mastermind 
behind the entire plot, Good Luck!

Thanks for Playing,

Ian Summerfield