"Mr. Blaskowicz!", exclaimed the anxious voice on the videophone.  "You are needed in the CEO's office immediately!"  You jump from your chair, enter the transport module and instantly rematerialize in CEO Yatt's office.  He motions for you to be seated.The look on his face tells you this isn't your average minor conflict he needs you to resolve.  "The planet Frotos is in grave danger," he explains.  "Our routine recon flights to the outer perimeter have uncovered a Nazi base on the moon Pandexium."  "NAZIS!", your eyes get as big as a Frotonian freighter.  "I THOUGHT WE HAD DESTROYED ALL OF THEM!"  "Calm down, B.J.," he says reassuredly.  "Let me explain."

Yatt then reveals a disturbing bit of Earth history to you.  Forty days after the apparent surrender of Germany, submarines loaded with nuclear weapons exploded off the coasts of America, Canada, Russia, and England.  The apparent alive and well Hitler and his secret army then declared the Earth as theirs.  However, the nuclear explosions plunged the Earth into a deep nuclear winter except for parts of Europe, South America, and Africa.  After over one hundred Earth years, the Nazis have almost run out of usable atmosphere and resources.  Their apparent solution is to conquer the peaceful planet of Frotos, 25 light years from Earth.

"That is why we brought you here, Captain.  We foresaw the day when the aggressive Nazis would spread their disease throughout the galaxy.  So, 15 Frotonian years after your disappearance over the Atlantic Ocean, our predictions have unfortunately come true," he stopped, awaiting your reaction.  Visions of fighting the nasty Nazis flashed before you, but without hesitation, you offered, "What can I do?"

"We need you to go to the Nazi base on a FACT FINDING ONLY mission.  We need you to get as much information about their intentions and weapons and then report back here.  Only then will the council of elders and myself decide our course of action.  Are you up to it?", he asked.  "Of course I will go!," you answer (the adventure side of your being kicking in).

So, you are taken to a transport area, given a replicated Nazi uniform, a simple communication module, and a hand held phaser weapon for emergencies.  Yatt explains, "The code name of your mission is AMNESIA, because from this point on, your existence has been erased from our data banks."  You rematerialize in the first dome of the five dome Nazi complex....

Project director:  Bruce Ryder
Graphics:  Chris Emirzian, Bruce Ryder, Laz Rojas, and Kris Norberg
Sound:  Bruce Ryder, Christian Vinaa, and Laz Rojas
Scenario Builders:  Chris Emirzian, Rich Pizor, Laz Rojas, and Rueben Andajetsky.


                                        Amnesia Enemies

                                        Space Trooper
                                      This guy with a swstika on his suit 
                                      marches around bravely with his
                                      phaser gun.  Don't get caught.


                                         Robot Guard
                                      Huge spheres with pincer arms.  Don't 
                                      get too close!


                               SS Space Trooper
                                     Even tougher than the space trooper.
                                     These guys are packing semi-automatic
                                     phaser rifles.


                                      Alien Mutant
                                     Don't let the Hershey kiss shape fool you!
  

                                    Sentinel
                                       These guys hover around outside the
                                       complex, guarding key areas and exits
                                       in their four photon cannon machines.
                                       
  
To survive the Nazi complex, you'll need to find some of the following items:

                          
                              Semiautomatic phaser rifle.


                             Totally automatic phaser rifle.


There you have it!  All the items you'll need to survive the Gloria Dome of this five dome Nazi complex.  Of course, your cunning survival instincts, ability to find secret rooms, and catlike nine lives will be needed too!  GOOD LUCK!!