                      "ASSASSINATE HITLER"
             An add-on episode for Wolfenstein 3-D
                    Created by: GARY RAGLAND
                             -1998-
                                
                          VERSION 1.2

  Thank you for downloading this VERY improved version of Assassinate Hitler. 
Here are some of the major updates in this version:

  *Corrected the annoying fact that you had to go through a LOAD of trouble 
   just to access the bunker levels. Now the game runs continuously and 
   smoothly (This was the big one) 

  *Corrected a few minor glitches in the map; probably not even noticeable

  *Converted the game to Wolfenstein version 1.4, instead of 1.1

  *The file size is MUCH smaller



Assassinate Hitler is a game all in itself, which was created for use with 
the game Wolfenstein 3-D, by id Software. To run this add-on, all you need is 
the complete version of Wolfenstein (the shareware version will not in any 
way work) After unzipping the compressed file using PKUNZIP, you should have 
the following files:

     HITLER.EXE
     GAMEDT.WL6
     GRAPHICS.WL6
     MAPSINFO.WL6
     DATAX.WL6
     SOUNDS1.WL6
     HITLER.TXT   (This file)

Make sure you unzip these files into your Wolfenstein directory. Once you've 
done that you are ready to go. You will be able to run both Assassinate 
Hitler, and regular Wolfenstein now. The command "hitler" gets you into 
Assassinate Hitler, and "wolf3d" gets you into good old classic Wolfenstein. 
NONE of your original files will be altered in ANY way. Once you enter the 
game, just select NEW GAME, and select the first and only choice. 
NOTE: Selecting the slots where the other episodes used to be can cause your 
system to LOCK-UP.

The game itself is a lot like the original, as the only new graphics were 
taken from Spear of Destiny. Therefore, it will still have the same classic 
feel as the original set. What makes this game unique is that it has 20 
consecutively running levels (first of its kind).

The storyline is fairly direct: you are to Assassinate Hitler, dealing one 
final crippling blow to the Third Reich. Adolf Hitler, realizing that the end 
is near, has escaped to his TITANIC bunker in the German countryside. Allied 
intellegence has just now determined its location, and you must go there to 
perform your mission. The bunker itself is located underground and is bomb-
proof, but you wont be able to access it immediately. First, you must blast 
your way through an ancient German castle, which sets atop the entrance to 
the bunker itself. (This segment is represented by the first 10 levels of the 
game). The last 10 levels represent the bunker itself, which is a little more 
hectic than the castle levels. Level 20 is where you'll finally confront 
Hitler...

SOME LEVELS OF INTEREST:

Level 2 - Sewer tunnels: gross and slimey.

Level 4 - Very castly design   you can see outside all the way around

Level 6 - A very cavernous setting. Hans Grosse is located on this level, 
          although it is not necessary to defeat him in order to get out.

Level 8 - The DOG POUND - filled with nothing but dogs.

Level 14 - Tough opening room!


Special Thanks to: Chris Chokan, Peter Beyersdorf, id Software, all who 
worked on Mapedit


Feel free to distribute this add-on, but ONLY if this file is included and 
ONLY if the game is unaltered.


COMING SOON....

My next add-on: Schabbs 2000. It will have a VERY in-depth storyline 
involving many different units and objectives. It will also have MANY 
improvements upon Assassinate Hitler, and will have 50 continuous levels. 
Target finish date: May 1999

Get more info at: http://members.tripod.com/~gdr2

Or e-mail me at: gragland (at) ix.netcom.com

THANKS and ENJOY!

Gary Ragland


