WOLFENSTEIN 3D in G Minor HD
another steaming pile of shit by AstroCreep


DESCRIPTION (ORIGINAL):

This is a 1-level miniature game modification (also known as a "mini-mod") for Wolfenstein 3D using LZWolf, a source port
maintained by Linuxwolf, based on ECWolf by Blzut3.  It may only be 1 map, but it's pretty large - 128x128 to be exact, which puts
it at about 4 times the size of a normal Wolf3D map.  Asset-wise, this is a pretty vanilla mod - using only a select few Spear of
Destiny and MacWolf actors and a few bosses from Dunkelschwamm's Wolf3D Boss Generator to spice things up a bit.  Feature-wise this
uses a few tricks specific to EC/LZWolf, such as triggered pushwalls/doors, ROTT style elevators, changing music and trigger-activated DECORATE
actors.  To put the icing on the cake, the entire mod is set to the classical music of Beethoven, to fit the classical vanilla overall theme.

DESCRIPTION (HD):

This is yet another frankensteining of 2 of my mods for zesty effect, giving G Minor the ol' HD treatment.  This adds the features from Wolf3D HD into
G Minor, so now you can play this monstrosity with 128x textures and sprites (with rotations even!), zone/halo lighting, textured floor/ceiling (i'm too
lazy to do the 3rd plane thing, so you only get 1 floor/ceiling!) and even some shitty edits I made of the Mac Wolf bosses to match the bosses spit
out by Dunkel's Boss Generator!  Pretty cool, huh?



INSTALL INSTRUCTIONS (WINDOWS):

Buy the full version of Wolfenstein 3D from GOG or Steam, or dust off your old floppies
Download the latest LZWolf binary (https://wolf3d.net/lzwolf/)
If purchased from Steam/GOG, LZWolf should autodetect your game files. Otherwise, dump all files with the extension .wl6 to the same folder as LZWolf
drag and drop the pk3 to LZWolf.exe, or alternatively run from command line with 'c:\path\to\lzwolf.exe --file Wolf3DGMinor_HD.pk3'
Shoot Nazis
INSTALL INSTRUCTIONS (MAC):

follow steps 1 and 2 from the Windows instructions, however download the Mac binary instead
put all .wl6 files in ~/Library/Application Support/LZWolf
Open a terminal window
Drag your LZWolf binary into the terminal window
at the end of the path, type \Contents\MacOS\lzwolf and press the space bar
drag the l_m_p pk3 to the terminal window
curse Blzut3 for breaking drag and drop support
Shoot Nazis

You're on your own for Linux, as no binary packages exist at the present and you must compile from source. 
The compile instructions for ECWolf work perfectly for LZWolf as well, 
however you must (obviously) pull the source from the LZWolf bitbucket instead.

CREDITS:

Map, Title screen/Credit screen, IMF Conversion - AstroCreep
Bosses - generated using Wolf3D Boss Generator by Dunkelschwamm
Music - Beethoven, Erik Satie
Special thanks - other modders

HD CREDITS:

128x sprites and textures by iD Software
	edited by AstroCreep
	rotations from 128x Wolf3D Rotation Project 
		Ringman
		Pallin
		Doomjedi
		CeeJay
		CaptainJ
		LkMax
		DenisBelmondo
		Wiw
LZWolf by Linuxwolf
	Edited by AstroCreep
PK3 Compilation and DECORATE scripting by AstroCreep