Hey, folks...this is a one level demo of "Operation: Hundscheisse", with only the first mission on it.  Sure, you could open it in Flo Edit and try to play around with the graphics and stuff, but all the good stuff that isn't in the first level has been taken out.  That having been said, enjoy!  This game has been created by Dumscheissekopf, and all material that does not belong to the original Spear of Destiny is property of Dumscheissekopf and Monkeeworks Software.  If you like this demo, let us know!  If you don't, well, shut up! (just kidding).  Please send questions or comments to "mmerrill@centene.com".  Thanks!


MISSION BRIEFINGS


Mission 1 - Eliminate Hans Scheissekopf 

BJ enters Deedend Penitentiary through the basement level, which opens to the outside in a forgotten overgrown area. His mission is to take out the guards of the lower level, and find it's guardian, Hans Scheissekopf. Hans will most likely be in a bad mood when encountered. You would be to if you were kept in a basement, with a room the size of a closet as your "lair". Defeating Hans will allow BJ access to the elevator, and the upper levels of the prison. Look out for dog troopers that will be hunting BJ after his confrontation with Hans. 


FULL VERSION ONLY MISSIONS


Mission 2 - Terminate the Mini Mutant brothers 

This floor doubles as the lowest prison level, as well as a loading dock for incoming supplies. Fett Schwanz is smuggling stolen US Army weaponry and equipment into his facility, and some of it can be found here, though most is in the upper level storage. You will find the remains of many of Scwhanz's enemies, either imprisoned or scattered about on this floor. The Mini-Mutant brothers guard this floor, waiting to silenty ambush any intruders foolish enough to visit the floor. Eliminate them, and move on to the next area. Beware...they are not the only freaks BJ will encounter on this floor. 


Mission 3 - Destroy Esel Gross 

The third floor BJ will discover used to be another prison level, but most of the cells are empty or used to store stolen weapons and goods. Most of Schwanz's stash of US equipment is located here, not that it will help BJ any. BJ must keep an eye out for a growing number of nasty creatures on this floor, as well as the usual dog troopers and standard guards. The real threat will come in the form of Esel Gross, the "commander" of the hound troopers, and top dog around these parts. If BJ can open enough "whoopass" on esel, it's on to the final floor...the private quarters of Fett Schwanz himself! 


Mission 4 - Die, Schwanz, Die!! 

Yes, you read that right...Fett Schwanz lurks somewhere on this floor. Of all the areas in the prison, this is by far the nicest BJ will come across (which isn't saying very much). Once BJ destroys Schwanz, the heart of Operation: Hundscheisse will be shut down, but it's not time to rest yet...heck will surely break loose as BJ tries to escape with his life to the final elevator. But wait...that was the final floor, right? 


Mission 5 - The Laboratory 

BJ finds something he wasn't expecting...a lab area, accessible only from the elevator in Schwanz's quarters. It is from within this lab that the freakish minions serving Scwhanz are born, and there are sure to be plenty of them still wandering around! BJ lays waste to the creeps guarding the lab, to ensure the minions of Schwanz are stamped out. There doesn't seem to be anymore elevators, but wait a second...who put those remains of Fett Schwanz on the floor? Better grab them and get rid of them before someone tries some crazy reanimation stunt...


Play the full version for:

Five bosses total
Seven new levels
Four new enemy types

Thanks!