Well, it took me a lot longer than I thought it would (due to factors such as
I do have a life,  my job,  my other hobbies (making GIF and TARGA files) and
all the  other games  I like  to play),  but  here it is,  DarkStar's  Castle 
Wolfenstein-3D levels.   I hope you like them.   I had a lot of fun  creating
them.  I would like  to thank  those brave souls who  playtested  these maps:
D-Day, Minos, Kid Kaos, and the Cretins from Sparta (or was that the Spartans
from Crete?).  Some notes before you move on:

  I would  like to  thank Bill Kirby  and Brent Barrett  for the MAPEDIT.EXE
program, without which none of this would be here.

  BEFORE you copy the MAP*.DS1 files to your Wolfenstien-3D directory, rename
your old map files to a different  extension, an easy  command to do that is:
    C:\GAMES\WOLF\>ren map?e*.wl1 map?e.*.old
this will copy the two  files  that hold the  map data.  Then copy  the *.DS1
files to .WL1, the command is (like you didn't know) is:
   C:\GAMES\WOLF\>copy *.ds1 *.wl1
Tada!  You are now ready to go, and you old maps are still there if you  ever
want to play them again.

Hints and other tripe:

   On level four, it is impossible to get better than 88% on the secret doors.
   I had to kludge a fix,  as secret doors  usually  move back two spaces but,
   sometimes move three.

   On level seven, it is impossible (without cheating) to get 100% on treasure.
   Whatever you do, DON'T DIE!!!

   On level eight, the secret is to run like hell.

   For those of you who have been playing video games for a long time, you may
   recognize the room layout of level ten.

   Do not use these maps with version 1.4 of Wolfenstein 3-D, as they  changed
   the map files.

   Have Fun!

   -DarkStar 

PS: At some time in the near  future (if my few friends (yes,  I have friends)
    can convince me to get  my ass in gear)  I am going to be finishing up  my
    "Macho" levels, that is, standard Wolfenstien maps, but made a lot harder.

08/19/93 DarkStar
