Oktoberbloodfest DemoA Wolfenstein 3D Adventure by JMC------------------------------------Mission BriefingB.J., welcome back to Headquarters. We have a new mission for you. A few days ago a prisoner escaped from Wiesnstein Fortress which is located near the coast of northern Germany. The info he delivered was quite disturbing.I'm sure you've heard stories about the legendary German army commander Gunther Koolman and his hatred for the Nazis, SS and The Fuhrer. After 20 years of service to Germany he went rogue and started assasinating Nazis, blowing up their secret bases and sabotaging all sorts of things. Until recently he'd been conducting operations with the Allies. He's been a great asset, unfortunately he's been captured along with a multi-national special operations team which includes Magnus Ellsworth of British SAS and Wyatt Brickhouse of US Army Special Forces.Now here's the sick part of this briefing. The Fuhrer has invited high level Nazis and SS to Wiesnstein Fortress to celebrate a new festival which he's named "Oktoberbloodfest". Large quantities of the finest Bavarian beer have been delivered for the event and "Beer, Brats and Blood" is the festivals slogan. Part of the entertainment will be executing prisoners in the most barbaric ways possible, but we're not going to let that happen. Your primary objective is to rescue Koolman and his team from this grisly fate. They're currently being held by Dr. Schabbs in the dungeons below the fortress.The complex is also being used to store a hoard of stolen Nazi gold. Capture as much of it as you can. The escaped prisoner was also going on about some ancient pirate treasure hidden in the tunnels and caves. If it's true it will no doubt be difficult to find.Lastly, we're always in need of more intel. If you find any top secret Nazi or SS info laying around, secure that as well. It's always useful for the war effort.This operation is code named: Oktoberbloodfest, Good Luck!General Charles MacModding------------------------------------System Requirements and CompatibilityThis scenario was tested on a Power Mac 6500 running Mac OS 8.1 but should work fine with System 7 through Mac OS 9. There's an incompatibility with Mac G3 and G4 processors that causes the game to freeze. I've made three versions of this scenario, if you have freezing problems try the "Drunk" version. In WolfEdit, the level editor for Mac Wolfenstein 3D, the enemies can be set to regular mode or ambush mode. The differences are described below.Oktoberbloodfest Demo (Sober) - The Nazis have been drinking in moderation and are on high alert. They will attack if they hear you nearby. In WolfEdit all of the enemies are set to regular mode. This version will freeze on a G3 or G4 Mac. It works best on older Macs.Oktoberbloodfest Demo (Tipsy) - Only half of the Nazis are drunk. Watch out for the other half, they may hear you and attack! In WolfEdit half of the enemies are set to ambush mode. This is the ideal version to play but G3 and G4 Macs will probably have freezing problems with it.Oktoberbloodfest Demo (Drunk) - The Nazis are all drunk, Hammered / Pissed / Blitzed / Schmidt-Faced and won't attack until they see you. In WolfEdit all of the enemies are set to ambush mode. This changes the gameplay but makes the game more stable. This version was tested on a Power Mac G4 400 running Mac OS 9.2.2 and is the most stable when using G3 or G4 processors. Mac OS 9.0 and 9.1 may be more stable than 9.2.------------------------------------InstallationPlace the scenario files in your Wolfenstein 3D "Levels" folder. Start the program, pick "OBF Demo" from the list of scenarios. Frag Nazis.------------------------------------WeaponsB.J.'s Bloody Boot: When the Nazi's are finished stuffing their faces with potato dumplings and strudel offer them a heaping helping of your U.S. made, size 13, steel-toed combat boot.Colt M1911 Pistol - The standard issue pistol of the U.S. military. Your pistol is preloaded with 16 bullets.MP 40 Submachine Gun: The "Maschinepistole 40" is the standard issue weapon of the Nazi SS guards. It includes a handy foldout shoulder stock and carring strap. Each MP 40 is preloaded with 6 bullets.The Bavarian Brutalizer Chaingun: This exotic weapon is gold plated and adorned with diamonds and gems. It was given to the Fuhrer as a gift by Baron Otto von Hammerschmidt, a prosperous Nazi weapons manufacturer from Bavaria. The Chaingun is preloaded with 20 gold plated diamond tipped bullets!Dr. Schabbs Toxic Biohazard Slime Thrower: This experimental weapon spews highly toxic slime made from weaponized zombie mucus. Don't get any on yourself, it will melt your face off. The Slime Thrower is preloaded with 34 units of propellant.Adlerfaust 999 Rocket Launcher: This weapon launches hypersonic eagle shaped rockets. To save space the rockets are stored and loaded with wings folded. The onboard guidance system is powered by cloned eagle brains. The rocket launcher is preloaded with 5 rockets. This incredible weapons name should always be spoken in a very loud voice "ADLERFAUST! NEIN! NEIN! NEIN!".------------------------------------AmmunitionLuger Pistol: Each pistol includes 5 bullets. These bullets will be used with your other guns.Ammo Box: Each box includes 25 bullets for your shooting pleasure.Backpack: Each pack includes 20 bullets. The first pack increases your maximum to 199, the second 299.Slime Thrower Container: Each container contains 14 units of slime propellant.Adlerfaust 999 Rockets: Each rocket crate includes 5 rockets.------------------------------------ObjectsPretzels: These mouthwatering German pretzels are baked in a nearby village and delivered every morning by young blond-haired blue eyed maidens. Each pretzel will boost your health 4 percent. Just don't eat too many or you'll get fat.Bratwurst: These plump juicy German sausages are served with Sauerkraut and mustard on a wheat roll. Guaranteed to increase your health 10 percent!Beer Steins: These fancy beverage mugs contain some of the finest beer in the world. These will increase your health 25 percent. Buuurrrrppp!Nazi Folders: These red folders contain top secret information used by the Nazi party such as war plans, maps and communications with the German High Command. Recover as many as possible.Nazi SS Folders: These blue folders contain top secret information used by the Nazi SS such as prisoner info, blackmail, execution and assassination plans. Recover as many as possible.Nazi Gold: These boxes of stolen Nazi gold are strewn across Wiesnstein Fortress. Recover as much as possible.Treasure Barrels: These rare piles of pirate treasure were hidden in the tunnels and caves long ago. Keep your eyes out for clues on the walls, you just may find some nearby.Prisoners: Rescue any prisoners you encounter. Each prisoner you save will increase your health to 100 percent and give you an extra life, 1-up!------------------------------------TipsLocating secret doors is required to complete the levels. Use the Map key to find unexplored areas. You can also use a cheat to find the secrets. Try to save the powerful weapon ammo for bosses, don't waste it on weaker enemies. If you're using a G3 or G4 Mac it's a good idea to save your game once in a while in case the game freezes.------------------------------------CheatsType these cheat codes anytime while playing to activate.APPLEIIGS - Shows secret doors in map modeBURGER - Gives all weapons and full ammunitionIDDQD - Gives invincibility / Turns off LEDOUXLEDOUX - Gives invincibility and both keysMCCALL - Jumps to next levelSEGER - Gives both keysWOWZERS - Gives full ammunitionXUSCNIELPPA - Gives invincibility and full ammunition------------------------------------About the ScenarioOktoberbloodfest is a scenario (a custom map or level) for the Mac version of Wolfenstein 3D. It's compatible with the 3rd Encounter or Commercial version of the game. It has an Oktoberfest theme so I thought it would be fun to release a demo of the progress for October 2021. The demo includes two large levels with lots of new graphics including new wall and door textures, objects, weapon animations and a status screen that works with all four game resolutions. There are no new enemy animations, hopefully I'll add some in the future along with more levels. All graphics were created using the pixel editing software Aseprite. Some of the graphics are modified versions of the original Mac Wolfenstein 3D graphics. B.J.'s Bloody Boot animation is based on Duke Nukem 3D's kick. Enjoy!------------------------------------Other Scenarios I've ReleasedWolfen Fatal Fuhrery - This previously unreleased First Encounter scenario was originally created in 1996. It's now playable with Wolfenstein 3D 3rd Encounter or the commercial version. A Special Edition is also included that improves the original maps and adds three new ones. Both versions include a fatal ending that just might enrage you into a keyboard smashing fury. Sorry about that... Enjoy!macintoshgarden.org/games/wolfen-fatal-fuhrery-a-wolfenstein-3d-adventure------------------------------------JMCjdmck002@gmail.commacintoshgarden.org/users/jmcMade on a Mac... and a PC10/9/2021O'zapft is!