LEICHE SOLDAT: A SCHABBS 2000 PREQUEL
By: Gary Ragland
June 13th, 2014

Thank you very much for downloading and playing Leiche Soldat!

Like my previous work, the focus is mostly on mapping and atmosphere. The only extra 
sprites and wall textures are from Spear
of Destiny and Schabbs 2000. The intent was to stay close to the feel of the original 
with one major exception: size of the 
levels. Most maps are very large and some fill an entire 128x128 area. There are 
13 levels in all.

Storyline: Well, that never was my specialty. In a nutshell, the story is the same 
as the original Episode 1 (thus the 
Schabbs 2000 Prequel moniker). You begin the game as a POW in a special isolation 
cell for those who know too much. You overpower 
the lowly brownshirt, and you know the rest. After you escape the prison area, you 
will navigate a series of different types
of levels in search for confirmation of the location of Dr. Schabbs.

Leiche Soldat is built as a Wolf4SDL project. To play it, simply add your original 
AUDIOT and AUDIOHED files for the full version
of Wolf3D to the files included in the download package.


As always, many sincere thank-yous are in order:

*id Software: Creators of what remains my favorite game of all time, some two decades 
after its release. Their original masterpiece
is perfect enough that my projects are basically nothing more than new maps. Full 
credit goes to id.

*Andy_Nonymous: Andy graciously offered to help make a Wolf4SDL EXE for me based 
on my wishes. Tackling the non-mapping end of
things had been my main stumbling block in getting this project going over the years. 
He was able to quickly implement my
requests for song order, seamless levels and the ever-important ceiling colors, as 
well as provide some changes I never would
have thought of. This project never gets past the first stage without him.

*MrWolfForever: Playtesting is vital, especially when covering the square footage 
of these kind of maps. You can only do so much
yourself and it never hurts to have a fresh perspective. MrWolfForever provided incredibly 
thorough reviews and recommendations, 
saving you the user from suffering through needless bugs as well as giving insight 
that helped some levels behave the way my mind 
had originally intended.

*Arielus: Sometimes you need a swift kick to keep going, and Arielus helped immensely 
in keeping the motivation high by encouraging
me to contribute to the Map of the Month club. I was running out of steam half way 
through the project and may have lapsed back 
into oblivion without the great discussions and analysis from a fellow Wolf3D purist.


*The creators of and contributors to Wolf4SDL and Wolf Data Compiler: To Wolf4SDL 
for bringing the game to modern operating systems
with ease and incredible grace. To WDC for a great across-the-board editing experience 
and the capacity for making my vision of
gargantuan levels a possibility. I never thought I would leave the comfort of MAPEDIT, 
but WDC was a pleasure to work with.

*Chris Chokan: The legend and a great friend from the old days. I never get into 
Wolf3D editing if not for him. 

*All the active members of the diehardwolfers forum, who helped keep a community 
alive for me to rejoin after years away. The 
creativity and talent in this community is second to none.


My other projects:
Assassinate Hitler
Schabbs 2000
Countdown to Disaster
Episode 4
