\


 

TS README
	Welcome to my second real mapset! The name is “This Spear”. I’m going to make a 
Sod called “This Spear”, and a Wolf3d mapset called “That Wolf3d”.
	With easier levels, less mutants, and way fewer bosses, the player can finally beat 
the game without raging at the difficulty. (The bosses can only be found in their 
respective levels, excluding secret levels, which contain a boss each.)
	Following the tradition of Haven mapsets, Aardwolf signs will be hidden in the hardest 
to find secret areas.
	The cheats are the same as the default. If you can’t find the secret elevators, 
warp to the levels, just to play it. It’s lame to make levels that nobody plays.

	Bring up any and all comments for this mapset. It is due to the comments I got from 
SHS that helped me realize the flood of mutants in my levels.
	All levels in this mapset you may use, manipulate, butcher, and do whatever. Credit 
for using my level is appreciated, but not mandatory. Now, get out there and bust 
some heads! (Preferably Nazi heads…) Good hunting!

This is Dark_wizzie, signing out, 3/7/2011
www.Wolf3d.Darkbb.com 

LEVEL LIST
Level 1: Wasteland 3
Level 2: Wasteland 1 – Made easier, no bosses, newly edited.
Level 3: Grey Area – Pun *might* be intended.
Level 4: Brownies
Level 5: Trans Fat – See what I did with the level name there? HAHAHAHA!
Level 6: Treasure Trove
Level 7: Master Key
Level 8: Super Symmetry
Level 9: WNE RIP – Tribute to Wolfenstein Never Ending
Level 10: The Wilhelms – Meet the Wilhelms!
Level 11: Snarky 
Level 12: More Brownies
Level 13: Concrete
Level 14: Round n’ About – (This is a new level, not recycled from SHS)
Level 15: Scavenger Hunt
Level 16: Mutant Master
Level 17: Ramparts Cont
Level 18: Death Awaits!
Level 19: This Secret
Level 20: The Extra Level
Level 21: Window Pain – Made by ack 

CREDITS LIST
Instead of being cool and saying that “the credits are listed in no particular order”, 
go ahead and figure out what order they are listed in. :-)

Ack – For level inspiration, his funny readmes, and level 21.
Adam Biser – For error checking utility from WDC. I like!
Andi – For making Chaosedit editor, which I use.
Brian Lowe – For posting this on the Dome, and agreeing to beta testing this monster 
of a mapset after multiple attempts at persuasion…
iD Software – For making Spear of Destiny!
Me – Jury’s out on the reason. :D
Ripper – For making Chaosedit (with Andi) and SDL. Without SDL, I probably wouldn’t 
be making mapsets anymore. 
Wlhack – For making an exe to allow Wolf3d objects in Sod. And his altered “wood 
panel” wall that fits a bit better with the wooden walls.
WolfForever – For playtesting and suggestions on level design, and to make sure nothing 
incredibly dumb pops up.
Wolf3d Haven – You know a forum is awesome when it has its own spam thread!!!


You, for playing this mapset. You are awesome!


Until next time, everyone! Auf Wiedersehen!
RELEASE NOTES
V1 – All levels double-checked to prevent dumb stuff. Final Release? 
V0.4 – 21 levels done. Just waiting for beta-testers… (Hurry up!)
V0.3 – Second beta release. 16 levels done.
V0.2 – First and only demo release. 10 levels done.
V0.1 – First beta release. 6 levels done, made for playtesting.
 

1.	Wutscape? How’d you manage to find my secret hiding spot? Well, my friend, I guess 
I have to tell you what levels the aardwolf signs are on. That would be levels 1, 
2, 12, 19, 20. Now go find them!!!

2.	Oh. BTW gaise, what do you think of my new mapset, This Spear? I think it’s great. 
:-) Less mutants and almost no Ubermutants, ja?

3.	Hey, it *might* take half an hour to play a mapset, but it takes 5 hours per level 
to make it! Learn to appreciate the tears and sweat put in all of my mapsets! Dark_wizzie 
rules to roost!

4.	Honestly, I’m running out of things to say. Uhm. Join Wolf3d Haven, because the 
forum is cool. Check out my WNE story at Wolf3d Haven. Check out my Wolf3d for Dummies 
guide to mapping, (new version is under construction, albeit slowly), check out SHS 
and marvel at how much better my mapping has become since then, do a waltz, and whoop-de-doo. 
Look at all this stuff I just wrote. Better shut up now.

Don’t do what I wouldn’t do. Byebye! 
Nobody is perfect. I am nobody.
