The year is 1998. After a wave of beatiful women and 
known models dissapearing all around the world, the 
Russian intelligence have finally got a partial success on 
putting some light on the mystery. Some emails and 
phone calls were intercepted, and the information they contained was most disturbing. 

Apparently, on Island of Lesstop in the Pacific Ocean, a 
secret "amazonic" women movement established their 
main base. The goal of the movement apparently is creating a female army to take 
over the "Male-dominated" world, 
creating total female domination all over the Earth. Men will 
be used as slaves. To acheive that goal, women from 
around the world are being kidnapped and transferred 
to this Island, where they are asked to join the rebellion. 
The ones that agree get quite comfortable rooms and are treated rather nicely (at 
least at first), and are submitted to basic military training while being totally 
nude (though rumors are some are secretely hiding underwear in their rooms and wearing 
them so 
the guards won't see, even wash them, desprite that those who get caught using guards 
laudromats for that purpose are brutally punished (though unknown how)). After passing 
the 
tests they join the professional army units and get their 
army pants (though still no underwear. The main idea of full or at least half nudity 
is to be easily idetified as female, so male spies can't infortrate the rebelion). 
Another 
rumor from quite an unreliable source is that there is some cloning 
going on there. 
Those who refuse to join the rebellion are brutally 
tortured (or even executed in some cases) and kept in 
prison cells, mostly in underground dangeons. 

Some male agents were sent to Lesstop, but got too distracted 
by half-nudity of the guards that couldn't fight and got 
shot pretty fast. Female agents were sent as well, but ended joining the rebellion 
as they got brainwashed by the anti-male theme of the surroundings, so male agents 
are the only hope 

Your are top secret russian agent Max Titov, nicknamed "Green Scorpion", and your 
mission is - to enter the Island and find any useful 
information on the rebellion. and DON'T GET 
DISTRACTED by the femme fatals! 

And just before you go in, some new information 
arrived: 
The name of the leader of the rebellion (and the one that 
came with it's idea) is Marta Dran 
She was a young beatiful girl that wanted to be an 
actress. But male producer told her that her breast are 
too small for her to really get the hollywood success she 
desires. Marta didn't give up, and so went to a plastic surgery, much enlarging her 
breasts. But heavy breats have put 
too much weight and pressure on her knees, so after a 
while knee-pain started torturing Marta (though she ignored itat first with her busy 
hollywood schedule) and soon she couldn't walk. Hollywood soon forgot about her. 
Doctor's diagnose was that her knees got an irreversable damage from breast overweight 
and she will never walk again, and so she needs a 
motoric chair. So she began hating male dominated world that made her to over-enlange 
her breasts without caring for her health, and so she came with an idea to create 
female dominated society. the rest is a history....There is a rumor her motoric chair 
has a few surprises... 

Additional info just came in: 
It seems that the main Fort uses bulletproof half-seethough doors to make easy tracking 
on the models and to prevent an uprising.