This is the readme file for "Earth Anomaly", a Klooni mapset by Serpens.

1. Copyright note
2. General
3. Story introduction
4. Credits

----------------

1. The story and maps of this mapset are done by me and belong to me, but if you 
wish to use or modify them, I might allow for this if you contact me before and give 
me the proper credits. 

2. First of all - what is Klooni? In case you didn't know, it's a Doom clone for 
Wolfenstein 3D made by Codetech84 and Megabyte. You can find a full credit list in 
Klooni's original readme.

Although Klooni has some limitations typical for Wolfenstein engine, like no height 
differences, it's still an excellent mod, in my opinion the best Doom-to-Wolf conversion 
out there. Plus, its authors say that it was made mostly with modding in mind. And 
this is true - making levels for Klooni is far easier than it is for Doom, while 
Klooni's limitations aren't that visible. Since I love Doom as much as Wolfenstein, 
willingness to create Klooni maps was a natural reaction when it was released. Later, 
I received the files needed to edit levels and I were decided.

As far as I know, this is the first Klooni mapset, and I'm very glad to be its creator. 
Right now, it has only one episode with ten levels, but this will probably change 
over time - I'm planning to have at least three episodes. As for their quality, of 
course I did my best, but remember that these are my first steps in Klooni mapping, 
so not everything might be perfect. Still, I'll at least try to eliminate all the 
bugs. When writing this, I still do not know what the betatesters' opinions are. 


Below is a short introduction for the mapset's storyline, most of which can be found 
in-game. I hope that you'll find it good and immersive enough.

3. Would you believe that the World could be about to end one day? Would you believe 
that one of those mad prophecies, made up to scare people and make money, could actually 
come true? Earlier on, without doubt, you wouldn't. Now... you also wouldn't. It 
was a coincidence anyway. But everything else was true.

This day, you went to your work in UAC complex as usual. Everything was as usual. 
But this illusion ceased to be immediately when you arrived at your work place. At 
once, you noticed that the office block was silent and empty. All the offices, corridors, 
halls, all the rooms - epmty. Not a living soul around. Even the entrance guards 
were gone. Bewildered, you went towards the exit to the complex' inner part, where 
you were a guard.

The huge, steel building was right in front of you, but even here, everything was 
silent. Suddenly, you noticed that someone was standing to your right. You shouted 
at him, asking what is going on. As you though, he slowly turned towards you, but 
you'd never expect that he was about to shoot at you! Fortunately, he missed by an 
inch, which gave you time to defeat him hand to hand.

You grabbed his pistol and took a closer look at him. One thing made you uneasy - 
his face, pale, with no expression and widely open eyes even now, when he was unconscious. 
A flurry of wildest thoughts flashed through your head, and it took you a good while 
to calm yourself and decide to go back and look for help. But the door, open just 
a minute earlier, were now blocked.

Furiously, you fought with the door, punching it, kicking and shooting at it, but 
to no avail, they wouldn't budge. Already knowing that there's only one way, you 
slowly proceeded towards the inner complex' entry, with your pistol ready in hand.


4. Credits

Yes, credits list, the most important item in any readme file... Mine is as follows:


id Software - for making Wolfenstein 3D and Doom.
Codetech84 - for making Klooni, giving me the editor files, allowing me to work on 
this mapset, providing lots of helpful advice and answering all my questions, betatesting 
the levels and making it available for download. This mapset wouldn't even exist 
without you.
Megabyte - for betatesting, surely resulting with lots of advice (and help with a 
certain bug - this was written after Megabyte's betatests).
Lilmanjs - again for betatesting and advice.

Serpens (Jan Dabrowski)