"Operation: Letzterschutz"  (SDL and DOS versions) v1.2  help/mini manual 

Greetings!  Thanks for downloading Operation: Letzterschutz!  There is an online 
web site devoted to this game, but in case you don't have access to the net, or just 
want some quick help or reference material, this mini manual will save you a visit 
to the site.  Just in case you don't know the site address, it's:  http://www.angelfire.com/droid/majikmonkee/OLsite2.html



Introduction:

In 1992, the gaming industry was turned upside down by the release of one of the 
first and best known first-person-shooter games ever, Wolfenstein 3D.  The game was 
revolutionary for it's time, and was responsible for ushering in a whole new genre 
of gamplay, the era of the first-person-shooters.  I first encountered it during 
college back in 1993, when I discovered the shareware version of it on a friend's 
computer.  From the initial escape from the cell on the first floor, to the climactic 
battle with the gigantic Hans Grosse, I was hooked, and would remain so for years 
to come.

There were many who remained faithful Wolfenstein fans for the many long years after 
the game came out.  Sad to say, I wasn't one of the faithful ones.  Like many other 
people, I moved on to more advanced FPS games as the engines got more complex, and 
quickly forgot about my roots and my initial love of Wolf3D.  Luckily for me, there 
came a point when my crappy eight year old PC wouldn't handle newer games anymore, 
and stopped running the ones it run just fine initially, casting me into a funk where 
I played no FPS games for a long time, and thought little about them for several 
years.

In late 2002, I had progressed to writing reviews for outdated NES and SNES games 
that I still had a love for, because the ROM craze was in full swing around this 
time.  Some of my more negative reviews were discovered by a publication that made 
a living trashing just about everything it could find, and I was recruited to become 
a writer of biting reviews of not just video games, but anything else that I found 
worthy of a cheap shot.

It was about this time that I came across a negative review the publication had made 
years back about the atrocious SNES conversion of Wolf3D.  I realized the review 
wasn't very in depth, and I hated that conversion so much that I decided to do a 
more elaborate piece on it.  It was during this time that I came across AReyeP's 
homepage and "Spear Resurrection" for the first time.

In my current state of bitterness when I first read the storyline for SR (clones 
made of crap?), I thought it was a prime target for a slanderous and degrading review. 
 However, like all good journalists, I decided to make sure I knew my material first 
before writing the review.  I downloaded the game and gave it a whirl.  Little did 
I know just what it was that I was up against.

My first thought was "What the...THIS is Wolfenstein?  No way...it's too good to 
be Wolfenstein!"  It only took me a matter of hours to start doing more research 
on the web and to stumble across the Dome and Mr Lowe's old homepage.  When I saw 
some of the other great mods out there, I knew I was hooked.  My negativity vanished, 
and the old love I once had for the original Wolfenstein returned with a vengeance...I 
was hooked all over again!

Since then, with the help of a LOT of talented  people, I've done a total of three 
mods:  Halls of Stonehenge, HOS: Special Edition, and Operation: Hundscheisse (released 
under my brother Dumscheissekopf's name, because it was his initial idea).  While 
there has been positive response to most of those mods, I always felt like something 
was missing from my contribution to the Wolfenstein mod scene.  My greatest achievement 
chronicled the story of BJ fighting lunatic Nazi fanatics alongside zombies and monsters...I 
love HOS, but it wasn't quite the mod I wanted to be known for.

Ever since I first played some of the great historically accurate type mods out there, 
I've always wanted to do one of my own...one that would make people say, "Yeah...this 
could happen".  My vision for this mod is that it be one that people feel could actually 
be a legitimate chapter of the original Wolfenstein saga (I know there are those 
out there with whom HOS just doesn't quite feel right).  When designing the story, 
characters, and locations for the game, I tried hard to make sure that they all had 
a grain of historical realism to them whenever possible.  Sure, there's some fanciful 
stuff in the game, but for the most part, it could all have happened (I think!).


So, that having been said, I hope you enjoy this game, and that it feels like what 
it was intended to be:  not another arbitrarily thrown together shoot em' up, but 
a solid and enjoyable continuation of the great and classic original Wolfenstein. 
 Whether or not it achieves that is, of course, up to you...the player.  :)


~Majik Monkee~


Dedications:

This game is dedicated to my wife, Branson, who even though she isn't a big Wolfenstein 
fan, has always supported me in the things that matter.  Also, it's dedicated to 
my brother John, who helped me win the full version of Wolfenstein the first time 
by alternating episodes.  Finally, I'd like to dedicate it to all those who helped 
create it and make it great...I couldn't have done it without you all!  Okay...enough 
of the mushy stuff...*sniff*



Version 1.2 Update Differences:

- some incendiary soldiers have been replaced with phantom menaces in certain maps 


- some levels have had a couple of incendiary soldiers removed (to avoid crashes 
from too many actors...better safe than sorry) 

- E3L4 has had some significant changes made to it (a gas can that should have been 
a throwing knife has been changed, the exit has been expanded because soldiers opened 
the locked exit prematurely, making the boss fight unnecessary) 

- some other minor changes have been made to the later episodes 



Known Problems:

OL was designed to be as "glitch free" as possible.  Of course, nobody is perfect, 
and neither is any program I know of, so here's the known problems with OL.

DISPLAY ISSUES - Every now and then, when you die and the game restarts, the screen 
will have shrunken by one size, and the border will be flashing red.  This isn't 
the first Wolf mod I've seen that does this, and I'm not sure if there is any way 
to correct it permenantly (it doesn't happen all the time).  To fix it, simply resize 
your screen, and it will return to normal.

SOUND ISSUES - Sometimes, when you are spotted by multiple enemies at once, the sound 
will cut out after they shout out their warnings.  This is easily fixed by going 
into the sound menu and selecting "no sound", then immediately reselecting your original 
sound source.  The problem also occurs occasionally with the use of certain special 
weapons, resulting in silence from either the weapon or enemies you defeat.  Again, 
this problem isn't unique to OL, but for those of you less familiar with the Wolfenstein 
engine, I'm including this solution here.

OTHER ISSUES - I don't know of any other problems currently. If your PC does not 
want to run OL, check out some of the troubleshooting tips on the web for running 
Wolfenstein 3D in general. I don't really want to get into all of that here. Wolfenstein 
doesn't seem to like Windows, so try running it in DOS mode if you are not already.


If you discover any other issues or glitches, let me know, and I'll add them to future 
versions of this document.



Story: 

Usually, I write a shortened version of the story for my mods in these mini manuals, 
which is more or less what I've done here (this is the original story that appeared 
as part of the promotion for the mod at modDB).  For those of you who are avid readers, 
I would still recommend giving the web site a visit and reading the full story.  
It includes a lot more detail, and explains some stuff that the story below doesn't 
quite cover.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Hitler has fallen...Japan has surrendered...WWII is officially over...for most people...however, 
for BJ, the man who never rests, the end is actually the beginning of a slew of trials 
he has yet to face. 

Prior to the imminent fall of the Nazis, a plan was secretly developed by a secret 
group of high ranking Nazi officers, and their leaders, Wolfgang Eisenkreiger and 
Emmet Von Braun. The plan involved loading up several German U-boats with a horde 
of stolen Nazi treaures, and heading for South America, where the Nazi forces would 
rebuild and plan a new war against humanity. 

The plan was launched, and Eisenkreiger and Von Braun were successful in establishing 
an alliance with a corrupt South American dictator, known as "El Presidente". Eisenkreiger 
agreed to use their incredible stores of wealth to support El Presidente and his 
army of thugs if they in turn would provide protection for the weakened Nazi remnants 
while they rebuilt. The alliance of Eisenkreiger, El Presidente, and Emmet Von Braun 
was dubbed "The Triumvirate". Eisenkreiger was the tactical genius, El Presidente 
was a master of corrupt politics, and Von Braun was a genius far beyond his time. 


While Eisenkreiger and El Presidente built their army and developed a fortified stronghold, 
Emmet Von Braun worked feverishly to use their abundant capital in a more creative 
fashion. Using technology well advanced for his time, he developed a prototype vehicle 
called a "gyropanzer", a machine that could hover through the use of spinning propellor 
technology, rather than flying like a jet. This machine would prove devastating if 
perfected, allowing the pilot to accurately target and attack ground troops, while 
still utilizing the mobility of flight. 

The gyropanzer was almost perfected when the Nazi's fortune began to dwindle. The 
project was costly, and outfitting the Triumvirate army while padding El Presidente's 
pockets was a costly venture. Against their better judgement, Eisenkreiger decided 
it was time for the fall back plan. The Nazis had taken some but not all of their 
treasure store in Germany, and though it was a risky venture, they could return to 
the Fatherland and reclaim it under cover of darkness. It was the Triumvirate's decision 
that this was the course of action that would be taken. And so, a single U-boat departed 
from it's hidden port in South America, bound once more for Germany and it's hidden 
fortune. 

Little did the Triumvirate know that American agents had learned of the operation, 
codenamed "Operation: Letzterschutz", and an unexpected piece of cargo was going 
to be making the return trip with the sub...an American operative named BJ Blazkowicz. 
And so the story begins...

GOOD LUCK, BJ!! 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Controls: 

The standard controls are whatever you set them up to be.   Most of my previous mods 
had special controls like weapon holstering and a crosshair you could turn on and 
off.  Sorry, but there's nothing like that in this game.  I just didn't feel those 
features were necessary this time around...hope you weren't expecting to use them 
in this game.



Difficulty Settings:

There are four different difficulty settings in "Operation: Letzterschutz", ranging 
from very easy to obnoxiously difficult. The strength and number of enemies you will 
face is determined by which difficulty setting you choose. Here are the four different 
difficulty settings:

Chicken - This setting is strictly for newbies and people who are afraid of the toilet. 
Challenge is minimal, as there are very few enemies, and the ones that you will face 
have very low hit points. Not a suitable challenge for serious gamers. 

Average Joe - A little bit tougher than "chicken" mode, but not by much. The enemies 
can take more damage, but their location and number is the same. This difficulty 
still won't present much of a challenge for people who are experienced first person 
shooter fans. 

One Man Army - This setting most accurately reflects the level of challenge "Operation: 
Letzterschutz" is meant to have. The enemy count is much higher than in the first 
two settings, and bosses and standard enemies can take more hits before going down. 
This is the preferred setting for folks who have had some experience in the world 
of Wolfenstein. 

Total Maniac! - If you like abuse (and who doesn't?), then this is the setting for 
you. There are lots of enemies in this setting (the same as in "One Man Army"), but 
they take the most damage of any difficulty level. You'll need to look for health 
and ammo more than ever to stay alive on this setting. A suitable challenge for seasoned 
Wolfers who find the other settings to be too easy.


Enemies: 

There are lots of enemies in OL, some of which you will recognize as variations of 
enemies from the original Wolfenstein, and others that are more or less completely 
new.  If you are having problems dealing with the enemies you are facing, the descriptions 
below might give you some helpful tipes on how to defeat them.

Dog - Pretty easy to defeat.  They run at you and try to take a bite out of you, 
but a single shot or jab from your knife will put them away.  They are pretty fast, 
though, so make sure you don't get surrounded by them, or allow one to sneak up on 
you.

Soldier - The standard ground troops of El Presidente's army.  By themselves, they 
are only a minor threat, and can usually be dispatched by a couple of well placed 
rounds.  It's when you face several of them at once that you need to start worrying. 
 Their pistols do moderate damage, but a single shot at point blank range can put 
an end to your mission.  They leave a used ammo clip when defeated.

Triumvirate Guard - These guys used to be SS soldiers when they served under Hitler 
back in Germany.  When the Triumvirate was formed, they shed the trademark uniforms 
and took on jungle training and fatigues.  They wear body armor, and can take a lot 
of abuse, and they are pretty good at dishing it out too.  If they catch you off 
guard, you'll be seeing red in a terminal way.  You can acquire their machine gun 
if you dispatch these guys.

Officer - Former Nazi officers, they continue to serve as leaders of the Triumvirate 
forces.  They are less common than most other types of soldiers, but for BJ, that's 
a good thing.  They move very quickly, and their shots frequently find their marks. 
 To make matters worse, they wear body armor, and can take a fair amount of punishment 
before they go down.  For your trouble, they leave behind a partially spent ammo 
clip.

Guerrilla Soldier - These are the worst of El Presidente's thugs you'll encounter. 
 They are tough to kill, and attack silently and without warning with their twin 
pistols.  Most of the time they can be found hiding out in jungle areas, but occasionally 
serve as body guards inside some installations.  You are awarded some ammo if you 
survive their attack long enough to defeat them.


Super Enemies:

Incendiary Soldier - At first glance, these appear to be ordinary soldiers, but they 
are actually much more dangerous.  They carry flamethrowers that spew balls of fire 
at you, and they wear protective gear that allows them to pass through the fire unharmed. 
 The gear also offers them considerable protection from bullets, so it will take 
a lot of shooting to bring them down.  They move slowly, and so do the fire balls, 
but whatever you do, don't let them corner you.

Phantom Menace - There are some places you won't find incendiary soldiers, but that's 
no reason to relax...there's always the phantom menace!  These strange foes resemble 
a floating ghost that approaches you silently.  Once they stop moving, though, they 
release a volley of blazing fireballs, similar to the incendiary soldiers'.  Are 
they real, or a clever device to scare intruders?  No time to decide...blow them 
away before they fry you!

Jeep Soldier - Talk about uneven odds!  These guys are standard South American soldiers, 
but they carry sub machine guns and drive heavily armored, bullet proof jeeps.  If 
you're caught in the open when they start firing, chances are you won't survive. 
 They move faster than any other enemy you'll encounter, and the jeep will take a 
lot of damage before it falls apart.  Unless you have no other choice (or you're 
going for a high kill ratio), you might be better off running than sticking around 
and fighting these dangerous enemies.

Enforcer Droid - These robotic menaces were invented by Von Braun to protect key 
areas of the Triumvirate occupation.  They are like heavily armored walking battle 
tanks, and have only one objective:  Terminate intruders mercilessly.  Battling them 
with anything less than a machine gun is foolish, but even with a heavy machine gun, 
they'll still give you a run for your money.  The good news is they don't appear 
until the later episodes.  Second only to bosses in strength and ability to destroy 
you.


Boss Enemies:

La Cucaracha - Originally an American from Texas, La Cucaracha fled the country to 
avoid excecution for crimes he'd committed.  He passed through Mexico, and eventually 
found his way to South America, where he met up El Presidente.  For years now he's 
served as El Presidente's chief thug, but he never dreamt he'd be serving former 
Nazis as part of his dirty work.  He battles with a huge chain gun as well as a machine 
gun (in case the chain gun doesn't do the trick).  BJ will meet him on the final 
submarine level in Episode 1.

Hon Fu - A professional assassain, Hon Fu is currently selling his skills to the 
Triumvirate, guarding the jungle around their camp with a band of deadly guerrilla 
soldiers.  Not even the leaders of the Triumvirate knows his true identity, nor do 
they care, as long as he continues to do his job well.  He carries a katana instead 
of a gun, and shuns the weapons of modern war, preferring instead to eliminate his 
opponents with razor sharp throwing knives.  He guards the fourth jungle area, and 
BJ must locate and destroy him to complete his jungle mission.

The Schwarzritter -  This guy combines mean, ugly, and deadly in a very efficient 
package.  Ever since his childhood, when him and his family were driven from their 
home in Russia, he's been in a permenant bad mood.  At some point in his life, he 
made his way to Germany, and pledged his loyalty to the Nazis, taking on the role 
of Eisenkreiger's personal body guard.  He's not the brightest, but he knows how 
to handle a chaingun, and he's built like a tank.  He guards the Nazis' central camp, 
and BJ will encounter him at the end of Episode 3.

El Presidente - An illegitimate South American dictator, El Presidente was the one 
who originally harbored Eisenkreiger and the Nazi refugees, and later, became a third 
of the leadership of the Triumvirate.  He really doesn't care much about Hitler's 
dream or the Nazi ideals, though...all he really cares about is the steady supply 
of gold the Nazis provide in exchange for the use of his land and his private army. 
 El Presidente is a notorious coward, and if anyone manages to infiltrate his villa, 
they can be sure he'll send out every soldier he can find before he actually does 
any fighting himself.  BJ must face him at the end of the fourth episode.

Emmet Von Braun - A brilliant scientist from Germany, Von Braun is the brains behind 
Operation: Lezterschutz.  Although he dislikes war and destruction, he has vowed 
to avenge Germany's bitter defeat during the second World War.  He cares very little 
for the actual leadership aspect of his role as one third of the Triumvirate headship, 
and prefers to work in isolation on his various technological developments.  Rumors 
abound of his most recent project - a deadly hovering attack machine called the "gyropanzer". 
 Even though Von Braun dislikes fighting, he carries a rocket launcher, which he 
used to defend himself if attacked.  BJ must face him to complete Episode 5.

Wolfgang Eisenkreiger - The brave and intelligent leader of Operation: Lezterschutz, 
Eisenkreiger is every bit the soldier that BJ is - he just happens to be fighting 
for the other side.  It was Eisenkreiger who developed the plan to flee Germany before 
it was too late, and he dreams of building up the strength of the Triumvirate army 
to the point where they can exact revenge on the nations that brought about Germany's 
defeat.  He dislikes modern "smart" weapons, and prefers to do his fighting man to 
man instead of from a distance.  BJ will face his toughest challenge if he manages 
to locate and confront Eisenkreiger at the end of Episode 6.  

Other foes - There may be other "enemies" you encounter on your mission.  Most of 
them can't be destroyed, so don't bother trying.  You'll know them when you see them...trust 
me...all enemies that attack you from a distance can be destroyed.  If it looks like 
an enemy only uses two frames of animation, it can't be killed.  Get the idea?


Standard Weapons: 

BJ has four standard weapons available in OL.  Two you begin with, the rest you'll 
have to gain by finding weapon power-ups, either hidden or acquired from dead enemies.


Boot Knife - BJ begins the mission with this small but useful weapon.  It may not 
have the attacking power of firing weapons, but when used to dispatch unsuspecting 
guards, it will not alert other enemies (unless you are seen, of course).  Keep an 
eye open for situations where it might be useful...you never know what kind of trouble 
you might be saving yourself.

Pistol - BJ swipes this from an officer in the first episode, and then a standard 
guard in the third.  It fires single shots, and functions just like the luger in 
the original Wolfenstein. It's a good weapon to fall back on if your ammo is running 
low.  BJ is usually pretty heavily outnumbered, though, so automatic weapons will 
become important early on in each episode.

Machine Gun - The Triumvirate guards carry these automatic rifles, and you'll want 
to get your hands on one as well.  The machine gun is ideal for most combat situations, 
as it can dispatch multiple enemies, but doesn't use up ammo too quickly.  It can 
be used against bosses also, though you'll probably prefer a heavy machine gun in 
those situations (assuming you can find one).

Heavy Machine Gun - A large, powerful weapon, with a very high rate of fire.  It's 
the preferred method of dealing with bosses and super enemies, assuming you can locate 
one before such encounters.  It handles crowds better than the machine gun, but it's 
rate of ammo usage make it less practical against smaller groups of enemies.  The 
heavy machine gun does not appear at all in the first episode.


Secret Weapons:

These weapons are almost always hidden, so you'll have to search hard to locate them. 
 It will be worth it if you find them, though, as each has special characteristics 
that make them especially useful when dealing with the opposition.  There are three 
of them in all, and each has it's own unique kind of ammunition.

Throwing Knife - This weapon can be used to attack silently, like the standard knife, 
but you throw it instead of stabbing with it.  It's great for dispatching enemies 
from a distance without alerting other foes.  Once you've thrown a knife, though, 
it's gone...you can't retrieve them if you miss.  You can replenish your ammo supply 
by picking up additional knives.  Keep in mind that the knife can't be thrown through 
objects you can't walk through, so make sure there's nothing in the way before throwing 
one.

**NOTE:  The knife can be lethal when used properly.  Don't underestimate the destructive 
power of an accurately thrown knife.  Use them wisely!

Cobra Gun - A prototype anti-tank type rifle, complete with a laser sight.  This 
weapon packs a punch, and will destroy most standard guards with a single shot, sometimes 
even certain super enemies.  It's rate of fire is about the same as the pistol, so 
it's more useful for long range sniping of single enemies than for crowd control. 
 It's a handy weapon to hang on to for encounters with jeeps, incendiary soldiers, 
and even bosses, so don't waste your bullets on standard guards.  Requires armor 
piercing bullets to replenish your ammo supply.

Napalm Launcher - This ultra-powerful weapon of mass destruction launches flaming 
balls of burning gas that explode on impact.  Any enemy caught in the blast radius 
will take damage, usually in a critical way.  It can do the same to BJ if he's too 
close to the blast too, so look out.  This weapon is best used in large open areas, 
or places where you're sure the projectile will travel some distance from you before 
it explodes.  An excellent tool for destroying super enemies and bosses.  Refuel 
the launcher by collecting the red gas cans you may find lying around.

**NOTE:  Most of the time, if you score a direct hit on an enemy with the napalm 
launcher, he will absorb most of the impact from the blast (though it will still 
harm you).  To affect more enemies with the blast radius, try striking walls or objects 
near the enemies rather than the enemies themselves.  Also, be careful firing will 
standing in a doorway.  If an enemy is just to the left or the right of the door 
on the other side, the projectile will explode instantly, and probably kill you in 
the process.


Treasure:

I don't really feel like talking too much about the treasure.  It's the same as with 
all other Wolfenstein games, it just looks a little different. In a nutshell, here 
are the treasure types, and what each is worth, just in case you are new to this 
still:

cross - 100 points

chalice - 500 points

treasure chest - 1000 points

crown - 5000 points


Health and Ammo:

Another section I don't want to waste words on. Sorry, but this is the boring part, 
quoting numbers and values, etc.  Here are the basic pickups and what you get from 
them, though:

ammo clip - 8 bullets for a fresh one, 4 from a dead enemy

special ammo (includes knife) - 4 rounds

green and red keys - opens doors...what else?

small medkit - +5 health

bowl of food - +10 health

first aid kit - +25 health

extra life - extra life and full health + bullet bonus


Missions and Hints:

This is a summary of what to expect from each level, as well as a description of 
what each episode is supposed to be.  The text at the end of each episode will sort 
of give you an idea of what the next episode will be all about, but in case there's 
any confusion, these descriptions should help you out.  Note that there may be some 
plot spoilers in the level descriptions, so don't read ahead any further than you're 
willing to have things revealed to you. :)


EPISODE 1 : "Deep Trouble"

BJ begins his mission by infiltrating the "Wolfram", a giant German u-boat.  The 
mission begins right after BJ has knocked out an officer, and tried to steal his 
uniform, alerting several guards in the outside halls.  You will face a lot of German 
officers right off the bat, so don't expect a warm (or easy) welcome.  Most of the 
sub levels involve cramped quarters and tight passages, so be careful about where 
you start up trouble.  Beware also of the occasional incendiary soldier - they will 
be the toughest non-boss enemies you face in this area, and are dangerous in narrow 
passages.  In order to complete the mission, you must defeat La Cucaracha and locate 
the heavily guarded map room that will reveal the location of the Triumvirate camp. 
 Good luck!


EPISODE 2 - "Jungle Fever"

After discovering the location of the Triumvirate camp using the maps on board the 
"Wolfram", BJ hides in one of the cargo containers on the sub and stays hidden for 
the rest of the trip.  Unable to locate BJ, the Nazis finish the voyage to South 
America, and unload the cargo crates from the sub, including the one BJ is stashed 
inside.  Unfortunately, the crate doesn't go very far before one of the guards hears 
a noise inside, and makes the mistake of checking it out.  BJ eliminates the guard, 
and prepares to make the dangerous journey into the jungle.  This episode is crawling 
with guerrilla soldiers, who attack quickly and silently.  Much of the action takes 
place outdoors, though you will run across the occasional enemy camp or isolated 
shack.  You will face jeeps for the first time in this episode, so be prepared to 
take cover if you're spotted by one.  The goal of this mission is to make it through 
the jungle in search of the enemy camp, but you won't be able to do so without facing 
the leader of the guerrilla solders, the assassain, Hon Fu.  Defeating him will end 
the episode (though probably not in the way you were expecting).


EPISODE 3 - "Camp Deadly"

After defeating Hon Fu, BJ is knocked out from behind by a guerrilla soldier he missed 
during the commotion.  The good news is he makes it to the heart of the Triumvirate 
camp.  The bad news is he's taken there as a prisoner, and tossed in a dirty old 
cell to await execution (sound familiar?).  However, the cells are also used as dog 
pens, and days after BJ's capture, a hapless guard checking on the dogs mistakenly 
opens BJ's cell, and is immediately dispatched by the desperate prisoner.  Grabbing 
the guard's pistol and knife, BJ prepares for his most dangerous mission yet: make 
a mess of the enemy camp, and escape with his life.  The various buildings of the 
camp are crawling with enemies, and making it through will easily be the toughest 
challenge BJ faces to this point.  Should he make it to the final area, he will have 
to contend with the Schwarzritter, Wolfgang Eisenkreiger's giant of a bodyguard, 
if he wants to acquire the gold key and his freedom.  It won't be an easy battle, 
though...the final area is guarded by some of the tougher enemies BJ will face during 
his mission.


MISSION 4 - "Honcho's Villa"

Using the information he acquired on board the "Wolfram", BJ makes his way to his 
next target: the heavily guarded villa of the notorious El Presidente.  Destroying 
the dastardly dictator will strike a serious blow to the Trimvirate by preventing 
the recruiting of more South American soldiers for the Triumvirate army, and eliminating 
their ability to deal "legitimately" with local government and suppliers.  However, 
the villa is more like a fortress than a luxurious mansion, and BJ will find himself 
facing some massive opposition from El Presidente's forces.  BJ will encounter a 
large number of the Presidente's deadly guerilla soldiers, so he'll need to rely 
on his ability to spot enemies early on rather than just listening for them, or he 
may experience an untimely death.  The Presidente is a notorious coward, and he's 
sure to have a few of his cronies helping him out if he's forced to fight.  Destroying 
him will liberate the oppressed people of the region, but it's just the beginning 
of the most important part of BJ's assignment!


MISSION 5 - "No Pain, No Gain"

In a desperate effort to stop the "gyropanzer" project before it can be completed, 
BJ makes his way to a once abandoned monastery, which now serves as a laboratory 
and fortified stronghold of the Triumvirate genius, Emmet Von Braun.  Von Braun isn't 
stupid by any stretch, and he's got more than his share of well armed guards patrolling 
the gloomy passages of the ancient fortress.  To make matters worse, BJ will have 
his first encounter with the deadly "enforcer droid", Von Braun's mechanized and 
heavily armored watch dogs.  Destroying Von Braun is critical...it will not only 
eliminate all but one of the Triumvirate leaders, but it will give BJ an opportunity 
to seek out and destroy all of Von Braun's notes and plans for the "gyropanzer". 
 Will BJ accomplish his mission before it's too late?  There's only one way to find 
out...

MISSION 6 - "Showdown!"

BJ's worst fears are realized as Von Braun's notes reveal that a prototype of the 
"gyropanzer" has already been completed, and that it has been moved to a nearby airfield 
in preparation for it's first attack flight!  BJ must make his way to the airfield 
and destroy the "gyropanzer" before it can test it's destructive powers on the world! 
 Sound easy?  It's anything but!  A horde of the Triumvirate's most powerful opposition 
has assembled at the airfield and surrounding jungle, and only the strongest could 
hope to penetrate these deadly defenses.  Should BJ make it to the "gyropanzer", 
it will take some extremely heavy firepower to bring down the armored attack vehicle 
before it makes worm food out of him!  But what of the Triumvirate's third member, 
Wolfgang Eisenkreiger?  Will BJ locate the mastermind behind "Operation: Letzterschutz" 
before he can escape and begin a new scheme to revive the Nazi war machine?  We can 
only hope...


A NOTE ABOUT SECRET LEVELS:

In a lot of mods, secret levels are pretty much just an enjoyable little sidestop 
for folks who spend a lot of time exploring their environment and looking for secrets. 
 However, in O:L, they can have a profound affect on how difficult each episode actually 
winds up being.  There are several cool "super weapons" in O:L, waiting to be found 
(see the "weapons" section above), but they  won't be just handed out to you.  Throughout 
most of the game, the secret weapons can be found only at the secret levels, and 
if you miss them once, you won't get another chance to get them in that episode. 
 Want a little hint?  Okay...the secret levels are ALWAYS found in the first level 
of each episode.  Be thorough in your exploration, and examine everything that looks 
like it might be pushable.  If you come across a locked door that you can't open 
with a key, and you're sure it's a secret entrance, try having someone open it for 
you...sometimes it's easier said than done!  The bottom line is that if you want 
to have a definite edge, FIND THE SECRET LEVELS!  The rewards are ALWAYS worth it... 
:)



Well, that's about it!  There's really nothing more to cover, and playing the game 
is more fun than reading this manual anyway, right?  For questions or comments about 
the game, send an email to:

dhw_majik_monkee@yahoo.com

We welcome all comments, both good and bad.  Of course, I'll print out the bad ones, 
shred them, and use them as confetti at my next big party, while framing the good 
ones and hanging them over the mantle.  If you liked OL, and want to check out some 
of my other projects, look for the following:

"Halls of Stonehenge"
"HOS: Special Edition"
"Operation: Hundscheisse"

Well, that's all, folks!  Have fun!!


OL KREDITS:

BIG fat thanks to the following people who have made OL a reality.   My apologies 
if I've forgotten anyone or anything...please don't sue me!


Concept: 

Majik Monkee


Graphics:  

- Majik Monkee  (bosses, some of the enemies sprites and scenery, title screens)

- Mr Wolf (guard, SS, guerilla soldier, jeep, flame soldier, weapons)
- WSJ  (many walls and sprites taken from Operation: Heimzahlung*)
- some graphics taken from the Lost Episodes
- some of the graphics from the game were taken from the ROTT original artwork specs 
from the 3D Realms website (mainly the monastery textures and the animated torch)


*  Also, WSJ informs me that some of the sprites I requested from Heimzahlung originated 
in Spear Resurrection.  I got AReyeP's permission to use sprites from the game, but 
I'm sorry...I don't know which came from which, but special thanks to both of you!


**Special thanks to the graphics team for all your fantastic contributions, and to 
Mr Wolf for fulfilling my ever growing list of requests.


Sound: 

- Majik Monkee  (some German voices)
- Mr Wolf (South American enemy voices)
- WSJ (pistol sounds)
- some other sounds taken from original Wolf3D
- a couple of the sounds were taken from Half Life (special thanks to WSJ for getting 
and modifying those for me) 


Music:  

- Adam Biser (for converting music to useable Wolf format)
- Majik Monkee (selecting and inserting tunes)
- some original scores from Wolf3D by ID Software
- other music taken from Final Fantasy 7 by Squaresoft


Level Design: 

- Majik Monkee (E1: 1,2,3,4  E2: 1,2,3,4,0  E3: 1,2,4)
- ack (E1: 0  E3: 3,0  E4: 1,2,3,4,0  E5: 1,2,3,4,0  E6: 2,3,4)
- Arielus (E6: 1,0)

**Special thanks to the level design team for coming through with such great maps 
on very little notice!


Coding Requests:

- Adam Biser (enemy coding, various other modifictions)
- WSJ (weapon coding and various other modifications)
- Andy Nonymous (SDL conversion)

**Special thanks to the coders for enduring over a dozen different request updates 
from me throughout the O:L creative process...you guys are great!


Editing Tools:

- special thanks to Adam Biser for his WDC program, which I used for the first time 
to make this mod (Floedit was getting too buggy for me). 


Caffeine:  

- "Convenience Barn" 44 oz Diet Pepsis
- my job, for that crappy but free coffee I live off of

Special thanks again to everyone for all their hard work and contributions, and to 
the Diehard Wolfers community for some valuable (and otherwise) feedback.  If I've 
forgotten anyone, let me know, and I'll stick your name in here in an updated release. 
 Peace!


~Majik Monkee~

