                             Blake Stone AOGX demo by Mikey X

 There are 12 levels in this demo (9 regular and 3 secret). Note that this is ONLY A DEMO. The full version will feature 72 levels. This is a levels replacement for Blake Stone AOG. ;) The difficulty in 
this map replacement most of the time is like the original but at times can be a bit harder. I decided to take the liberty of naming the levels since some the original names don’t make sense with the 
level, and some do make sense so I’ll keep it the same name, and some names of the levels will be on different levels, and the level name on top of the screen I can’t name so I’m doing it on this. (I 
hope you understand what I’m saying lol)

Level names:

E1 First Secret level: Security Training Arenas

E1 Second Secret level: Human and Guard Training Arena

E1M1: Technical Operations

E1M2: Office Operations

E1M3: Alien Holding Chambers

E1M4: Alien Storage Area

E1M5: Star Institute Planning Operations

E1M6: Pod Stabilization Area

E1M7: Controlled Pod Hatchery

E1M8: Security Offices

E1M9: Space Trak Transport

E1M10: Secret Mutant Chambers

INSTRUCTIONS AND INFO

If you want to see instructions on food, ammo, some enemies, treasure, health, and etc. Press F1 while you’re playing the game or go to instructions in the main menu. As for the rest of the enemies I’ll 
give you a little info on them.

Experimental Genetic Alien (brown) – An alien that sometimes comes out of a canister. 

High Security Genetic Guard – A human alien that has a slow fire protector.

Plasma Sphere – A plasma ball that can be a nuisance. 

Pod Alien – An alien that sometimes that comes out of a pod.

High Energy Plasma Alien – An alien made of plasma that shoots multiple projectiles at you.

Experimental Mech-Sentinel – A robot with 2 guns.

TOOLS: I used Mapedit version 8.4




POSSIBLE BUG: I found on the rare occasion that on E1M5 sometimes your point total goes up by 2055. If you find that your point total goes up as soon as E1M5 starts contact me by e-mail at 
mrussett@hotmail.com. And also post your comments to my e-mail but if you are on Diehard Wolfers I prefer to have a PM sent to me. ;) 

HIGH SCORES: If your trying for a high score and that bug happens just – 2055 points from your score, I know it’s rather stupid but I don’t want people to cheat.

CREDITS:

I would like to give a big thanks to ack for helping me how to start mapping on Blake Stone AOG, and also for putting up with my numerous questions, and for also beta testing my levels.

I would also like to give a big thanks to David Huntoon, Bryan Baker and Warren Buss for making Mapedit and for making Blake Stone AOG maps possible.

And a huge thanks to Apogee (a.k.a. 3D Realms) and JAM Productions for making Blake Stone AOG and for making this all possible.






