Welcome to Castle Wolfenstein! This is one of the latest Wolfenstein 3D scenarios released to the outside world.



Wolfenstein 3D has been around since 1994 for the Macintosh. Greg Ewing later discovered how Wolfenstein levels are constructed, and WolfEdit was born.

From 1995 to 1997, many fine editors created some of the best Wolfenstein 3D levels ever. WolfAddict Software took advantage of WolfEdit 2.0's capabilities to add custom enemies, walls, and the like.

Sadly, many games, such as Doom, Quake, Duke Nukem 3D and Unreal have overshadowed Wolfenstein 3D. Many former Wolfenstein players have flocked to these other games. WolfAddict Software perished in early 1997.

I am the creator of Castle Xeen, The Castle of Lost Souls, Fortress of Fear (formerly Dragon Cavern), First Strike, and Temple of Doom. Over the years, I've learned how to make good Wolfenstein levels.

Castle Wolfenstein is my latest and greatest creation. It's for all types of W3D players, 
from novices to veterans.

Castle Wolfenstein features new walls, new enemies, and new objects.   

The Story

The year is 1943. World War II is in full blow. The Nazis have just assaulted American troops just off the shore of France. You are one of those who escaped. Your unit's ammo dumps and your fellow soldiers have been locked up in the great Castle Wolfenstein. Your job is to defeat Hitler and rescue them. Good luck!  

Important Notice!!!


My levels are as rich and as complex as it gets. I have examined many a Wolfenstein scenario, and I have not seen one be as close as complex or as with as many traps as my Castle Wolfenstein.

These levels are very likely going to frustrate you. I myself have trouble beating them. Castle Wolfenstein does start out pretty easy, but later it will get hard. It is inevitable.

You are challenged with a mixture of tough puzzles and tons of enemies to kill. Timing and speed is essesntial. Especially in levels 3-1 on, you must watch your back every step of the way. These levels are much more unpredictable than you think.

Most scenarios, with the exception of "The Haunted Castle," created by Laz Rojas, don't take advantage of Wolfenstein's ghosts. There are ghosts in Castle Wolfenstein, usually more than you want to put up with. Most of the time, you won't have to deal with them, but there are certain points where you must deal with ghosts.

Save your game often. You're likely to fall into a trap.

Also, don't use cheats. It takes a lot of fun out of the game.  
Enemies

Guard: Your basic, ordinary guard. Easy to kill, but they can gang up on you.

S.S Officer: Blue, carries machine gun,	tough to kill. More of them than usual.
										
Elite Corporal: Quick on their feet, and can quickly end your life if you don't watch out.

Mutant: Created by Dr. Schabbs, they're silent and hard to kill.

Dog: I make sure dogs give you a hard time in Castle Wolfenstein. Usually attack in packs. Very fast.

Patrol: Watch out for these. Strong.

Captain: Honestly, you do not want to deal with these fellows unless you have a flame thrower. Watch out! There's a lot of them.

Goon: Big, blue, moves quick, and tough to kill.

Gremlin: Red, throws deadly fireballs. One tough mother.

Grim Reaper: Really tough to kill AND throw fireballs at you.

Hitler: Your arch-nemesis. 'Nuff said.

Ghost: Invincible and will kill you.

Other Ghosts: Three other ghosts exist. You don't know what they look like. You will likely find out. \

Objects

Urine: Blame it on the dogs. Luckily, they usually urinate near secret doors.

Barrel: They're not green in Castle Wolfenstein! Used to block you from nasty enemies.

Cots: Even Nazis need a place to sleep!

Meeting Table:  Where Nazis gather to discuss matters. When you see these, that usually means there's more than a few Nazis in a room.

Meat:  What the dogs eat. You can't eat them, though.

Statue: Before the Nazis invaded Castle Wolfenstein, groups of Mauils (a small religious pack) used to pray to these statues.

Tree: Bare trees the Nazis uprooted to block you from reaching your goal.

Jeep: Stolen from the Americans. Another object to block your vision.

Glass: Used very often in Castle Wolfenstein. You can't shoot flames OR missles through them. Quite irritating. At least you can see what's going on.
															
Other Objects: Everything else is pretty much the same as it was in the original Wolfenstein, except for a few
color changes.  


Hints and Tips


Level 1-1
There's a ton of places to go and lots to see. Just about anyplace you go, you'll find treasures and ammo. There is one trap, though. Watch out.


Level 1-3
Many places to go. Everybody is coming at you from all directions. Watch out! On top of that, there's many traps. Watch your back!


Level 1-4
Your first big boss. And it's a Captain! You won't encounter him until the end of the level, though. Wide, open spaces. And plenty of enemies, too. You will see a ghost on this level, but it won't hurt you. Be quick on your feet.


Level 2-1
Your first real puzzle. Don't have the see secret doors cheat active on this level or else it'll be no fun. Watch out for ghosts!


Level 2-4
Plenty of rooms, ammo and enemies. Good, not so clean fun. In the second section, you get a flame thrower!


Level 3-1
And this is where you get to use that flame thrower! Not only that, you meet your first Goon here. He's mighty strong! A lot of Nazis live here.


Level 3-3
Now things start getting tough. There are three ways to get the blue key. Fight a Grim Reaper, fight 22 mutants, or wade your way through a sea of ghosts. Also, there's more than one elevator. Only one is the real exit.


Level 3-5
Quite a unique level. The level grows as you progress. The exits will constantly move, and some exits will take you back to the first level. This is the level where you learn how to fight. Save often!

Level 2-1
What?! You're back on level 2-1 after killing all those monsters?! Oh, that is SO unfair. You're back on 2-1 for one reason: to get the missle launcher. Find it and you're off to level 4-1. And yes, you can get past those ghosts. I've done it without dying OR cheating. (Honest!)

Level 4-2
This level may be a bit confusing, but it won't take long to complete if you're quick. Have your missle launcher handy.

Level 4-3
There is one secret door that can cause you a LOT of trouble if you find it. Trust me.

Level 4-4
Run and start shooting right away. Don't die on this level. There is more than one way to get the yellow key. It all depends which path you take. If you don't hurry up, you're toast. Don't have the see secret doors cheat active on this level. In the second section, you must choose one of two exits. Depending on which exit you pick, you're either going to have one more or one less level to fight your way through.

Level 5-1
Mutant mania! Nothing but mutants and bosses from 5-1 to 5-3. In this level, you must find your way through a maze, and you're not going to get anywhere unless you rid yourself of a certain pest you can't kill that drains your life...you'll see. If you want this level to be fun, don't have the see secret doors cheat active.

Level 5-2
Speed is the key. And save before you try this level. That's all you need to know.

Level 6-2
There are four zones: One zone has plenty of ammo and treasure. In another you can find the yellow key. In another, you can find the blue key, and in the last, the exits. One exit takes you back to 3-1. I'm not telling you which one.

Level 6-4
This level will give you headaches. Run like hell, my friend. And find all the secrets you can! You NEED the ammo. No ghosts on this level.

Level 6-5
Ay carumba! So many bosses! I gave you tons of ammo. Use it. One more thing...don't bother trying to find the Grim Reaper with the blue key. You have to kill all the other bosses first. Believe me.  

Power Mac Compatibility

I discovered with Temple of Doom that some of my levels are so complex they overload Wolfenstein 3D on Power Macs. I tested some of Castle Wolfenstein on a 266 MHz Power Mac G3. I found that on levels with enemies rushing at you and opening a lot of doors, such as on floor 3-1, Wolfenstein crashes.

Castle Wolfenstein's compatibilty with Power Macs is questionable. However, it runs fine on '030 and '040 Macs. If you have trouble playing Castle Wolfenstein, try using WolfEdit 2.0 to take out doors. This will ruin some of the fun, but at least you can play the levels.

In the future, I will try to release a Power Mac compatible version of Castle Wolfenstein. It may never happen, but we'll see.č
Don't Have Wolfenstein?

Castle Wolfenstein requires the full version of Wolfenstein 3D. Most people don't have the full version. Unfortunately, MacPlay no longer distributes Wolfenstein 3D for the Mac.

If you want the full version, e-mail me at
copperfield@worldnet.att.net

I will send you the Web addresses for both Wolfenstein 3D AND the full version of WolfEdit 2.0, so you can edit my levels.

If you don't have the Internet, I will gladly send Wolfenstein and WolfEdit by e-mail.  

Shareware? I think not!

You know what ALWAYS annoyed me about those great Wolfenstein scenarios, such as Astrostein? They were shareware. You had to PAY for them. That made no sense to me. I don't believe in shareware. I think it's dumb. Therefore, I have always made my scenarios completely free. You own the full version of Castle Wolfenstein. You don't have to pay jack.

All I'm asking is that if you edit Castle Wolfenstein and choose to upload it, tell me about it and change its name to something else.

Also, I don't care if you steal the graphics. I stole most of the graphics (except the light blue wall, the puddle of urine, and the Patrol guards) from other scenarios. They probably don't care either.
 
Questions?

If you're stuck in a level and can't figure out what to do even if you've looked at it with WolfEdit 2, you can always ask me.

Just e-mail me at
copperfield@worldnet.att.net

My response time is usually less than two days.

Also, visit my web page at:
http://www.geocities.com/TelevisionCity/1568/wolf.html

It WILL be updated eventually. (Once I start getting more visitors.)

Also, I'm looking for other places to distribute my scenarios. Apple killed Info-Mac (during the Gil Amelio Era...blechh!), and that was my primary source of distribution. If you know of any service similar to Info-Mac, send me an e-mail and tell me about it!


Folks, Wolfenstein may be ancient, but it's still great. I'm one of the very few people still making Wolfenstein levels. Let's hope I keep making them.

Updated 11/28/98