1. Introduction

Welcome! Summer Night's Epitaph is a mod that, in my opinion, can be played at any 
time and by anyone. My goal was to create a short but sweet adventure, sometimes 
relaxing, sometimes challenging, for Wolfenstein 3D players who appreciate modern 
features and source ports but still yearn for that unmistakable flavor of old-school 
Wolfing. Five maps, high stakes, you're in to bring the Third Reich to its knees 
once again.

2. Storyline

As the year 1945 dawns, Nazi Germany is being assaulted from multiple directions 
and its demise seems all but certain, the only remaining question being who can reach 
the capital of Berlin first. But deep in the Fuehrerbunker, Adolf Hitler can be seen 
shaking the hand of a messenger whose secret mission can change the fate of the world. 
Heinrich Lenz, skilled and experienced spy serving under Otto Skorzeny himself, is 
headed to Italy, to the besieged Republic of Salo, where the devious dictator Mussolini 
is hiding his weapon of last resort. Unbeknownst to all, the Italian nuclear research 
is progressing with full force, violent flashes of test explosions tearing the sky 
and turning sand into glass. When Lenz arrives with his message, the full might of 
Italian air force will be unleashed and directed to drop their terrible load on Ardennes, 
inevitably destroying the bulk of Allied forces pinned by the feigned counteroffensive 
of Wacht am Rhein. You are headed to Castello di Oricola, a formidable fortress, 
with orders to intercept the message at all costs.

3. Features

This mod comes with five new maps and new graphics. It makes use of ECWolf native 
features to enhance gameplay and provide smooth player experience. Playtesting over 
the last week should have eliminated all possible bugs, but if anything shows up, 
please let me know. The scripting was very difficult to learn, but things get easier 
with enough practice.

4. Credits

-AstroCreep's excellent ECWolf tutorials
-other modders

Have fun,
Blackmore