Thank you for downloading The Third Reich - Episode 1: A Dark Secret, a mod for Spear 
of Destiny made by CKeen and Wolf Skevos-Jones. The mod contains a new episode with 
11 levels, with new enemies, new graphics and sounds.

This is version 1.1, I added more health and ammo on certain areas and changed a 
sound.

Storyline (it is NOT related to the original Wolf3d plot):

you, BJ, are part of an elite allied strike team which has been assigned to eliminate 
General Fettgesicht, developer of some new chemical weapons that he wants to use 
against the allies. Taking out the general will greatly help the allied cause. So 
you and your team are paradropped near a small abandoned village, in which the general 
is apparently hiding. Unfortunately, once you reach the ground, you realize it was 
only a trap. Nazi soldiers surround you and slaughter your team. You manage to hide 
in a hole in the ground before the soldiers could kill you, but you lose all your 
weapons except for your pistol. You hear footsteps and you realize the nazi soldiers 
are coming to check if anyone survived. It seems that you have no way to escape death, 
until you find that behind a strange looking rock in the hole there's a door. Without 
any other way to escape you quickly open that door which reveals itself to be an 
elevator that leads to an underground bunker. This bunker seems to have been built 
in the underhalls of an ancient german castle (now destroyed) and this is most likely 
where the General is hiding! It is up to you now to kill him, and stop the production 
of his chemical weapons once and for all!

The game starts off easy and becomes harder and harder on each level. Expect some 
true slaughter fests on the later levels. There are almost no mazes and it's very 
hard to get lost, the levels are mostly straightforward though I tried not to make 
them repetitive. If you're going for a pistol start, you will need to find secrets 
as soon as the game begings. Level 7 in particular requires you to find a secret 
almost instantly, and it is located on your left.

Known Bugs (only tested with the EXE, I did not use DOSBox):

- On level 10 and (rarely) on level 4 enemies may become invisible. This is due to 
engine limitations.
- On level 8 and 11 the game may "go crazy" and screw up all the sounds. This is 
also due to engine limitations. It can be fixed by saving the game, quitting and 
reopening it.
- Though this should be almost impossible to reproduce, enemies may open locked doors 
that serve as traps before they're supposed to do it. If this happens you have some 
very bad luck, because you'll have to fight a lot of enemies all at once.
- On level 9, for some odd reason, the game may start to display wrong textures in 
a certain area. This should be fixed by saving, quitting and reloading the game.

- When under 10% health, BJ can consume toxic waste pools and allied infantry corpses 
to regain health. I was simply too lazy to take care of this, so just ignore it and 
consider it like a uhm, easter egg. It shouldn't happen often anyway.


Credits:

WSJ: For helping me using Chaos Edit, modifying the source code and inspiring me 
with his great Wolf3D mods (from which I also took a few textures from).
Areyep: For the great Spear End of Destiny which is also a major influence for me, 
and for Spear Resurrection, from which I took a few textures from (I hope you guys 
don't mind!)
Chaos Software: For Chaos Edit, an extremely easy to use editor which I used to create 
the levels.
BJ Rowan: For Project Totengraeber from which I took some textures/sounds.
You: For playing this.
I may have forgotten a few people, but well, thanks to everyone who made this mod 
possible!