Sector 27
Author - Fgkjrujkuejrn

Published 3 - 23 - 01

Table of Contents:

     1. BackGround Story 
     2. Why you have been called foward.
     3. Your Mission
          a. Radar Installation
          b. Underground Tunnels
          c. Nazi Garrison
          d. Office Complex
          e. Enemy Base
          f. Private Quarters
     5. Characters
     6. Items
     7. History
     8. Disclaimer
     9. Future Projects
     10. Final note


BackGround Story
	It's 1960.  World War II has been over for nearly 15 years.  The war was brought 
to an end when Hitler was killed and the Nazi party basicly ceased to exist.  

However many Germans still held Nazi Beliefs even after Jews started to return to 
Germany.  Many former Nazis simply could not or would not accept that their Fuhrer 
was gone.  Some still tried to continue even when he was dead.  Many Nazi installations 
and bases continued to operate untill they were shut down during the late 1950's. 
 One installation that would not shut down was one high up in the mountains, known 
as Sector 27.  

Sector 27 served as a storage area during the hight of World War II.  It Could also 
serve as a hideout for high ranking officers including the Fuhrer himself.  During 
the fall of the third reich, Hitler had in fact considered this as his hideout but 
then a large bunker was completed on the outskirts of Berlin and he hid there instead. 
 He only spent a week in there before he was killed.  After the war, this installation 
discontinued it's operations, however, alot of activety was seen there during the 
late 1950's.  


As it turns out, two Nazi Generals: Schneider and Fettgesicht ,who was thought to 
have been killed over a chemical weapons plan, now inhabit the base.  At least three 
agents were sent there to make them give up their base but the agents were all killed. 
 A Recon team was then sent there to find out why they needed the base so badly. 
 They found out that General Fettgesicht is going to use his chemical war plan that 
failed nearly two decades ago.  He is going to use it to wipe out the country side 
of Germany!  However, he will not use this attack if the German government pays a 
certain ransom. Reinstall the Nazi party in Germany.  

Neither of these two can be allowed to happen.  These two mad generals must be taken 
out as well as any of their support.   


Where you come in.   
	You are B.J.Blazcowickz.  An American goverment agent.  You Have stopped General 
Fettgesicht before and you should be able to do it again.  Unlike the German castle 
that Fettgesicht inhabited before, however, he will be in a fully guarded ground 
base!  You will face some of the toughest security you could think of.  Also unlike 
the previous mission, there are certain objectives you must complete before you can 
kill the general.


Your Mission
	If you think you can just walk up to the doorstep, ring the door bell,  walk in, 
and kill Fettgesicht, you won't be ready for what you are about to do.  You must 
remember to take out the security, sneak in undetected, take out the supporting leaders, 
and then break into his private quarters.  Here are the six parts of the mission.


	Radar Installation
    		This radar installation is located on a high mountain, over looking the valley 
that contains sector 27.  This installation must be taken out if any air support 
is to enter the area with out being shot down.  Break in there, eliminate the personel, 
and shut down the main radar dish located in the control room.  This installation 
is lightly guarded and it shouldn't be too hard.  Or at least not as hard as whats 
coming up next. 

	Underground Tunnels
    		Now comes the time to break into the base.  Going through the main entrance 
would be to difficult.  An old system of caverns and sewers have been located under 
the base as well as the surrounding area.  These would serve as the perfect way of 
getting into the base.        
Enter the tunnels through a water pump station and continue through them.  The deeper 
you get, the more guarded they are.  For security reasons, the tunnels are seperated 
by armored sheild doors.  Before you can move on to the next section of tunnels, 
you must open these doors by using a control switch.

	Nazi Garrison
    		The tunnels dead end in the basement of one of the garrisons inside the base. 
 You must make your way through the floors of this garrison before you can continue 
on with the mission.  There are tons of Nazis in this place.  There are plenty of 
dorms and mess halls as well as the galleies and washrooms.  

	Office Complex
		Having made it into the base the supporting leaders now invite you to battle each 
other in the office complex next store.  Offices and officers are what you'll find 
in here.  The supporting leaders turn out to be mostly members of the Grosse clan 
who you have fought with before on several other missions.

	Enemy Base
		The Generals can't beleive you took out there supporting leaders single handedly. 
 They begin to take you as a more serious threat.  Schneider will continue to control 
the base while Fettgesicht hides in his private quarters.  You should take out Schneider 
first.  He is in the control room of the main part of the base.  The base is very 
well guarded.  You must deal with a lot of Nazis in this part of the mission.

	Private Quarters
		General Fettgesicht can't believe his partner is dead.  Furious, he orders every 
Nazi he has to kill you.  Starting to go mad he now orders the chemical attack to 
take place right then.  You must get to his lounge room and stop this maniac before 
he can destroy Germany!         


Characters
	Here are the characters that exist in this story line.

	B.J.Blazcowickz - this is the allies top agent and one of the best fighters around. 
 He helped to take down the evil Nazi party and will do anything to help stop it 
from raising again.

	General Fettgesicht - this former Nazi general had attepted a large scale chemical 
attack during World War II and now after the war is over, wishes to continue on with 
this plan.

	General Schneider - one of Hitlers top generals, this former Nazi has sided with 
Fettgesicht at sector 27 to help out with the chemical attack.

     The Grosse clan - this family has devoted much of their lives to protect the 
Nazi party. Now that it's gone, they decided the best thing to do is to side with 
the two generals at sector 27 and help bring back the evil party.


Items


Here are the various item you will see.

     Ammo clips - gives you 8 rounds

     Food - gives you 10% Health

     First Aid - gives you 25% Health

     Needles - gives you 4% Health 

     Key Cards - The Nazi no longer use normal keys and          
                 now use key cards.  There are two types       
                 and they are very well guarded.

     Treasure - Many stolen goods can be found and your    
                score will increase if you collect them.

     Guns - The machine gun and the chain gun.


History
	
Here's the history on the making of this game.

     1 - 20 - 01: Project begins


Disclaimer
	This game is not supported by ShareWare or Apolgee.  They will not give you any 
help on the game since they didn't make it.
	The levels can be modified and used in other games, HOWEVER, the story cannot be 
used in any other games. It is exclusive to this game only.


Future Projects
	This mission based game will be the first in a long series of games I will distribute.



Final Notes
	Thank you for downloading this game and I hope you enjoy it because alot of work 
went into it.  If you like it then don't forget about the other missions that will 
be released.    

         
                    	 	

                    



