Welcome to FOXENSTEIN 3D

By the Silver Fox, 2010.

Version 0.21 beta

NEW FEATURES:

1.	Seamless level progression.
2.	Seven different weapons.
3.	New enemies.
4.	Four keys.
5.	Textured flats (optional).
6.	Shading (optional).
7.	Ingame messages (optional).
8.	Portable medkits.
9.	And more, and more, and more.

IMPORTANT NOTES:

1.	Run the game with 'noshade' param to disable some advanced features,
	like shading, textured flats and ingame messages. This will return
	the classic Wolf3d atmosphere, and possibly avoid some bugs (see below).
2.	Some columns and barrels can be destroyed by shooting them for enough.
	Note that when you destory a barrel, it will explode and hurt all
	nearby characters including you.
3.	Don't let wounded enemies run away, these bastards can pick up healing
	items.
4.	When a rocket hits a wall, it hurts all nearby characters, even the one
	who launched it. Some enemies are smart enough to avoid shooting rockets
	if they are afraid of hitting a wall too close.

KNOWN BUGS:

1.	Sometimes all the static objects on the level may somehow become
	invisible. That happens very, very rarely, so I can't discover what
	exactly causes that. If you see all statics became invisible, just
	save your game, quit program and start it again.
2.	On some levels, floor texture may sometimes change for a second.
	Unfortunately, I still haven't fixed it. It's looking like this bug can
	be avoided by launching the game from FAR manager. If not, you still
	can disable textured flats.

HINTS/TIPS:

	I recomend you to save on a different slot when entering a secret level.
	Some secret levels have large amount of secret doors and you can stuck
	inside.

CREDITS:

	Game based on Wolfenstein 3D by ID software, modified by Alex aka
	The Silver Fox.

	Used Tools:
	- Borland C++ 3.1 for source code compiling.
	- Mapedit 8.4 for maps creating.
	- ChaosEdit 1.25 for graphics replacement.
	- Audio file manager for sounds replacement.
	- Paint for graphics editing.
	- Notepad for making helpart and endart.

	Thanks to MCS, DarkOne, Chaos Software and WSJ for coding tips.
	Thanks to Brian Lowe for publishing the game.
	Thanks to WSJ for creating Sniper pictures and to Majik Monkee for
	publishing them.

	Some graphics and sounds were used from the following Wolfenstein
	add-ons:
	- Wolf Collection
	- Spear Resurrection
	- Project Eisenritter
	- Coming of the Storm
	- Kill Him
	- Rising Evil
	- Rising Evil II Double Trouble
	- Operation Panzerschiff
	- Warzone Stage I
	- Project Wolfgeist
	- Zero Hour
	- Beyond Mutantstein SE
	- Spear Revisited
	- Schabbs 3000
	Sorry if I forgot someone

QUESTIONS?
	Please email me at wolfenfox2010 (at) gmail (dot) com
