					            PURGATORY!
					          A game by Possum Trot
					                   Part 2 of Abandon.
				EXE from Gary Ragland's "Countdown to Disaster".

First of all, thanks to Gary Ragland, who made "Countdown to Disaster", which is 
the game this game's based on. 

STORY:

Since the Abandon Wars in the late fourties, BJ never came back to Europe. He were 
most home in his house, located in the far away Montana. In the town of Cyr, a little 
hole in the mountains in Montana, you live. But things is not as they seems to. It's 
the evening of march 18, 1951. And your name was called from your house. You go to 
it, your wife has a phone in her hand. So you better answer it. 

"Hello BJ. It's OSA here. We want you back immediately!"
"Why that?"
"Cause the nazi regime has returned!"
"What?"
"Yes it has. So pack your stuff and get an airplane to Washington!"
"Ok, I just need to.."
"No need-to's here! It's important! The nazis already taken East-germany!"
"They have? I gotta go now! See you, sir!"
"See you, BJ."

BJ thought, that nazism was dead. In the christmas of '49 he clearly remember defeating 
the barricades in the Abandon wars. 
"I better get some sleep" he thinks, and therefore lay down. 10 seconds after, he 
snores loudly.
In the morning, you wake up. You are now in Washington DC, where the office are. 
So you go there.

"Hello again, BJ. Please have a seat."
"Yes sir."
"You see, in the end of 1950, preciesly a year after you defeated the Abandon Wars, 
Schabbs unfortunately died. He died...in some minutes."
"Are you mad? I killed him about 367 times now!"
"Yes, I know. Since Castle Hollenhammer was defeated weird stuff has been around."

"Ok...so it's about Schabbs...again? Big deal!"
"No, BJ...you see...it's about the Grosse Family."
"Oh, good old Hans, Gretel and Trans." They are dead.
"Yes, they are completely dead."
"So, why did you mention them?"
"Cause you must go to castle Grossewitz. It's the place they were born, and they 
lived for generations."
"Oh my god...you mean they had a whole family?"
"Yes. Hans, Franz, Karl, Trans, Eugene, Bronze, Gretel, Kurt, Wilhelm.."
"Is it the barnacle Wilhelm you talk about?"
"Yes, BJ. He actually were their uncle."
"Ew."
"You see, you must kill the two sons of Hans and Trans called Adolph and Jens."
"Ok. They must be easy and afraid...just like their two sissy fathers."
"Well, back to work BJ. We'll send a plane to Düsseldorf. You must walk two miles, 
and then you come to the castle Grossewitz. May god be with you!"
"OK Sir!"

In the morning, you wake up. You arrive in the airport of Düsseldorf. Here are many 
people, who are running, just to get out of the country. You heard that the airport 
will be closed in a minute - all airports in Germany will be closed too. But just 
five minutes after you leaved, you heard an explosion. Düsseldorf airports is now 
no more.

Though, you arrive to the castle now. And the level guide follows:

1-2 - Cabins. Just to come in, you must go through those.
3-6 - The Lounge. Slimy, creepy place. In level 3 you reach the point to the lounge. 
It starts out normal, but ends up in creepyness. Some levels have only mutants.
8 - Tunnel. Just a normal line which leads the tow parts together.
9-12 - Dominate. Dead and evil is the featuring here. So you better be ready with 
a chaingun!
13 - The Realm. This place is the unhabited part of Grossewitz. Whatever there is 
here - kill it!
14 - Final. The two Grosse brothers are here. Kill them! Then Germany is safe...again.

15-16 - Sicherheitdienst. These levels are hidden. Guarded by mutants in sewers, 
the mostly plot of nazi-gold is in this place.

Final Words.

Someone maybe not know "Abandon". And be happy for that! That hasn't much to do with 
this. I mean in graphics, the storyline is a little bit off-line, but yes, it has 
some of the same stuff as in my first release, the nooby but also "ok" game Abandon. 


Abandon was from 1947-49, which maybe took a bunch of time in reality. The levels 
were so small, that it even didn't fit. But I hope this will be known as "Abandon 
2" or "The new Abandon". But I will most let this go dedicated to Gary Ragland. For 
his great work on several EXE's in the Wolfenstein add-ons highlight, in the start 
of the modding experiences. This EXE, which, as you probably noticed, Countdown to 
Disaster, is one of the best EXE's I ever saw. I really like the seamless level progression 
and the VGA change with the 4 keys collected at one place. 14 regular and 2 secret 
sounds good, but is maybe not enough for me. But Gary made the hugest, coolest and 
most thumbs-up levels I ever saw, which more fits in to this EXE. My levels ain't 
that good, but since Abandon, I think I'm a little better :)

Possum Trot, 19th of march 2005.

THANKS TO:

Gary Ragland - EXE builder.
Havoc and Flamer46 - Worked so much on my failed EXE.
BJ Rowan - Level 13. Great effort!
Brian - Distribution.
Many others - Graphics and Sounds. Thanks!







