
Wolfer Spotlight
Majik Monkee
 
 
"A lot of effort has gone into this TC, and it's the best release for quite
some time," said the Dome News item, and indeed, Majik Monkee's "Halls of
Stonehenge" was quite a refreshing arrival to the Wolf3d scene in November
of 2003. With most of its levels contributed by ack, and its graphics
environment based on the game "Blood", "HOS" is a superb all-around TC.
I think it is an exquisite blend of levels, sound, music and artwork;
in fact, it is one of the few mods that I have played all the way through.
 

In addition to being a talented artist, Majik is quite an excellent project
leader. As head of "MonkeeWorks Software" he comes up with the concept, plus
some art and a few levels, gets the right people to help with more levels and
art and coding, and blends it all into a cohesive, satisfying end-product.
With people on board like ack, and/or Majik's brother Dumscheissekopf, plus
several high-profile wolfers, MonkeeWorks has produced other enjoyable mods:
a sequel to "HOS" called "HOS: Special Edition" (originally "HOS: Dead
Reckoning"); "Operation: Letzterschutz" which features a heavily-armored Jeep
and some other quite inventive "enemies"; Dumscheissekopf's "Operation:
Mutant Strike" and its sequel "Operation: Mutant Strike 2", which have female
agent Jill Hunter as the babe behind the gun.
 

I recall one of Dumscheissekopf's first posts on DHW, where if you understood
German, you knew he was pulling our leg with a ridiculous "storyline" for a
mod. Most didn't treat it as a joke, and encouraged him to finish his great
idea, which would become "Operation: Hundscheisse". With some help from Majik,
"OHS" turned out quite nice, and features weapons from Noah's Ark 3D, goofy
guard voices, and a dog-headed soldier! "Hundscheisse" won a Dome Award, as
have all of the previously mentioned add-ons.
 

Majik has also released a graphics patch for Spear of Destiny called "Alien
Invasion", which contains Corridor 7 guards, bosses, and guns; and under the
pseudonym "Elmer Fudd", a somewhat jokey mod called "Revenge of Poopdeck
Willie: Resurrection", true authorship of which was not revealed until almost
a year after its release. The levels are mostly "HOS" levels, but episode 3
is new, and there's actually a hidden episode at the sixth slot - good luck
with that one!
 

"Monkee's Image World" is Majik's website devoted to graphics images designed
by himself and submitted by others for use in Wolfenstein mods. Designed by
Adam Biser and currently hosted by Dugtrio17, the site has also won a Dome
Award (November 2004). Links to the Image World and the websites for each of
Majik's add-ons, including the upcoming "medEvil", are at the <MonkeeWorks
Switchboard>.

 

Andy Nonymous

 

Note: Since this page was first compiled, Majik has released 'medEvil' and
this has been added to the list.



                    Majik Monkee's releases


Name of addon                             Release       Notes

Halls of Stonehenge                       11/01/03      Dome Award Nov 2003  
Alien Invasion                            06/03/04     	         		     
HOS: Special Edition                      06/16/04      with ack, Dome Award
                                                        June 2004
Revenge of Poopdeck Willie: Resurrection  08/31/04      as Elmer Fudd
Operation: Letzterschutz                  09/01/04      Dome Award Sept 2004,
                                                        updated 01/18/05
Operation: Mutant Strike 2                01/08/05      Dome Award January 2005
medEvil                                   03/02/06      Dome Award March 2006


                   Contributions to others' releases 
 

Operation: Hundscheisse                   04/30/04      by Dumscheissekopf,
                                                        Dome Award May 2004
Operation: Mutant Strike                  10/07/04      by Dumscheissekopf,
                                                        Dome Award October 2004
