1.	Nursestein3d by 0069!

This game is an Add-on from the old game Wolfenstein3d. It consist the engine from 
darkone: Newwolf.
And it was made with Floedit (see the webadresses below). To edit the .pak file I 
used PakScape. 
To edit the pictures I used the software Photoshop Elements. For the little textures 
like editing the guard
I used the program MS Paint. 

Internet adresses:
pictures and pak's (pak0.pak, pak1.pak and pak2.pak) 	http://narod.newwolf.ru
modified pictures: 					http://dyk.homestead.com/Index
Floedit, editor for the whole wolfenstein3d		http://wolfnode.du
The Newwolf engine					http://narod.newwolf.ru

2.	Statusbar, Walls, sounds, sprites and enemy models

The game has changed a little bit. The statusbar (with life, floor etc.) had been 
changed. Because I found it rather
dull and boring. For the background I edited a wall (steel number 28 off walls in 
floedit) copied and created a 
background color. The signs and numbers are edited by myself, I made them look digital.

I understand that the concept to make it that way is not original so I would like 
to credit the people who came
first with this idea. Then the picture of BJ edited to make it make the statusbar 
better.

The walls are high-resolution, the images came from various sources. It's base is 
the original pak1,pak
from the site of newwolf, and roots of the images came of the Mac-version. Then I 
added pictures from
the site: http://dyk.homestead.com/Index.html "Nurse uniforms past and present", 
a website which contains many 
pictures of nurses, nurse uniforms in real-life and in the media. A nobel project 
and wuth to see!

The sounds from the models are taken from the Romanstein-series by mr. Choi, except 
the one from the attacking
Red cross nurse. That voice has been taken from: select multimedia nr 6 (I bought 
it at a fair in Amsterdam during
Koninnedag - queensday) and altered with Windows XP's sound recorder. To keep the 
frequency good, you'll have to
import an original sound and mix with a file, delete the old original file and keep 
the altered. 

The models are native wolfenstein and edited with Windows XP's paint. Some of the 
sprites are taken from 
Romanstein-series, and others are from the TC codename Purple blood. I you have floedit 
installed and 
wish to see the changes, here is a list: 0 till 4, 9, 15, 17, 19, 20, 37, 40, 41, 
46, 47, 48(*).

The enemy models are modified by me. Through the original came from the add-on Romanstein 
X* by Mr. Choi.
It had very good (female) enemy models and three are used. The following models are 
modified:
-	dog become a student nurse  in a dark blue uniform
-	guard become a nurse in a light blue uniform
-	ss'er become a Red-cross nurse in a red uniform
-	"Hans" become a uber-nurse in black uniform

3.	The game itself..
The game has supposed to be a look-a-like of a hospital. The walls have backs were 
patient can hang and walk, the
signs indicate if an area is open or closed for patients and visitors (German soldiers). 
Some walls have signs to
recruite nurses for the hospital. In some levels you'll find wards with beds. Changed 
jewellery into crosses 
and crowns. The ammo, food, medical care and more is also changed. Feel free to rip 
all the sprites, walls and
sounds. 

The story has thus been changed: 
BJ is on a mission to explore hospital Nursestein. When he walked into the hospital, 
German soldiers discover that
he's an American agend on mission and knock him out...

BJ find himself in a large room, with beds and german nurses. He like the idea to 
get out of this damned hospital, 
but to get out he need to kill some nurses. After killed one, you get the ammonition, 
pistol and a knife. 
You'll have to manage to get out of this place, but it won't be easy to do this. 
Since the nurses are alarmed when
you kill that one. Some parts of the hospital are in use to torture people and to 
propaganda people so watch out,
and good luck!