Falcon 93 Studios Presents

Watch Tower


From Halloween Candy Pack 2024

From the Series Of Knights of the SS 
 
K.S.S. : W.T. : V2

****

Mission Briefing

Intel suggests that the Knights of the SS, have set up a magickal network of 
Castles and Watchtowers to open portals to a the Black Sun, a realm similiar Thagirion. 

The Magi Order is sending you to the West Tower of Blackstone Castle to investigate, 
and seize a small but powerful Sieg Rune Stone. 

Once inside the castle sneak into the ventillation shafts that where retrofitted to it.
Don't get spotted before you get to the West Tower, crawl through the vents to get there. 

****

Notes on the Tower Experience 

This level is an experiment to simulate vertical movement, 
in Wolfenstein "3D" there is no vertical movement. 

To simulate this I made floor textures that look like stairs, 
wall textures with hand railings, and a stair way sign, 
as well as archer windows and a tower top with archery defensive structures,
 using textures and directional sprites. 

Please send your feedback on these graphical illusionary methods to me at 
Falcon93ILM@gmail.com


****

Game Guide

I made some bonus areas by placing some doors that dont have keys, 
in these areas there are important pickups, 
to gain access lure enemies towards you by firing your guns and kill them in the doorframe, 
if you don't block the door from closing with their corpses you will be stuck there. 
... I almost forgot to mention, if you want the Gatlin Gun befor the first boss you must play 
on Death Incanate difficulty setting to spawn the enemies behind the door for that bonus area,
there is a secret pushwall before the second/final boss to get it though. 


Also I used these doors on the east side of the Tower's stories
 to give the illusion of a larger Castle connected to the Tower, those doors don't open.

You will fight 2 bosses, they are possible with the MP40, I tested it, 
but it will be easier by gaining access to the bonus areas and getting the gatlin gun
before the first boss at the top of the Tower. 


Also note this mini game/level uses a very basic SOD4SDL engine, 
there are no additional weapons, but you dont need to reload either. 

Also THE GAME WILL CRASH UPON COMPLETION, ie when you obtain the Bloody Sieg Rune
THIS IS JUST HOW IT HAS TO BE WITH, SORRY. 

****

Credits 

(See Extended Credits for a more thorough attribution)

- ID Software : Original Games of Wolfenstein 3D and Spear of Destiny
- Formgen SOD Expansion Packs
- Shading on Pillars and Pedestals : Tris
- Wolf3d Modding Community : SDL Port and Coding Tutorials
- Aurora : Coding Help and Collosal Pack (Graphics)
- Majik Monkee : General Scheissegesicht 
- WSJ : General Steinkopf 
- MCS & Areyep : Textures, Including some that I art hacked, 
the Arch with Shield & Swords, and the defensive structures use as a base, textures 
from them and another communtiy graphics pack which I modified.
- Many many graphics from many many community graphics pack 
including 
- Ken O'Brien : Spider Webs, the base for my Knight Armors, several textures.
- Giorgio : Textures
- Rook Icon : Freepik

Music Credits 
Menu : Wondering About My Loved Ones : Bobby Prince
Intro : Going Gaft : Bobby Prince
Tower Level/in game : The Tower : Bobby Prince 
Award Music : Scores : Bobby Prince
The End : : Bobby Prince


 ****
HAPPY HALLOWEEN!
-From Agent Falcon 93
