"Wolf3d Community Map Pack" version 2.20

Important note: If you've a version older than 2.10, delete the
     CONFIG.WL6 file before running!  Saved games should still
     work, though.

This game runs in the 640x400 resolution.  If you want to run in
     the 640x480 resolution in Windows XP, right-click the EXE,
     select "Properties", click the "Compatibility" tab, and
     check-mark the "Run in 640 x 480 screen resolution" option.
     Then click the "Apply" button.

Title screen, VSWAP, and source code are hacked by
     Tricob.  Same goes for the demos and VSWAP, not
     to mention that "Scaremare" tune you hear on the
     title screen.

This contains 6 maps for each episode, and is done by
     the following DHW members:

Episode 1 - Tricob
Episode 2 - Levels 1, 2, 3, 4, and 10 by Thomas;
            Level 5 by WLHack
Episode 3 - Dean
Episode 4 - Levels 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 by Tricob;
            Level 6 by Dean
Episode 5 - WLHack
EPisode 6 - Level 1 by Thomas, Level 2 by Brian Lowe,
            Level 3 by Dean, Levels 4 and 5 by
            Tricob, and Level 6 by RonWOlf

Most of my levels are updates from my older add-on
     "Operation: Kill BJ!", aside from E1L1, E1L5,
     and E6L5, which are newer.

This release is ported using the Wolf4SDL engine, which
     was originally coded by Ripper.  It should run on
     most MS Windows operating systems, but Windows 2000
     compatibility has *not* been tested.

Font #2 as well as the Locked Door sound were corrected
     using WDC and its Font Editor.

I also credit the "5000 Free Sound Effects" CD for
  supplying the "dog death" sound I used, and the
  "Goldwave" utility for applying my correction to
  the "Spion!" alert sound.

Note that I've included a batch file that enables the
     Debug Keys when you run it.  It's called
     "GoForIt.BAT".

My sincere apologies to all of you whose names in the
   DOS EXE were replaced by someone else's.  I don't
   really know how the mistake happened in the first
   place, but I try hard to give credit where credit
   is due.  All proper credit (AFAIK) is given in this
   SDL version.  If it isn't, please let me know.
   Thanks!  :-)

Version info:

1.00: DOS-based version.
2.00: Windows-based version released, with numerous problems
     corrected.
2.10: Bug in raycastor is corrected, and the Controls (a.k.a.
     "Options") menu is expanded.  Also corrected the "player
     rotates to non-existent enemy" bug when selecting "End
     Game".
2.20: Save Game option after "You Win!" is corrected, all ratios at
     the Level Complete screen now run the same speed, and all
     Adlib sounds should now function 100% correctly.

Thanks to everyone who made this mapset possible.
       You've all done good levels here, and that's
       one of the reasons I wanted this collection to
       be released;  good maps are useless if no one
       ever gets to play them.

Enjoy the SDL port, folks.  :-)

- Tricob.