The following is my incomplete 64x64 TC that I've abandoned for 128x128 code.  The 
green guys are supposed to be Munchkins (The enemy came from the Image World), but 
they're way too big, have no pointy hats, and the dying sequences and attack sequences 
are all wrong.  Sound effects are right, though.

The SS is supposed to be a wand-welding sorceross.  The sound effects are done for 
this character, but nothing else.  So "she's" an SS with a female voice.

The brown guard has been replaced by a Cloaked Enemy.  His look, attack, and "dying 
sequence" are intentionally comical, so feel free to laugh.  :-)

The new Ammo Box and "Mutant Cleavers" are from Airslide.  The Techno-gun is from 
Conner94.  The new Spear Rack is from WLHack.

The Stained Glass walls are supposed to be a stack of Warehouse Boxes (This was never 
done for 64x64).  And, I apologize again for my *horrendous* Mine Shaft and Mansion 
Wall textures in this game.  Like I said before, the palette pretty much killed any 
attempt to use the brown shading effectively.

Music is still a WIP;  the Level 2 music needs touching up, and some tunes will probably 
be replaced in the final version.  The menu and Level 1 have the right music, though.


Map #1 is complete for this game (The rest are from the Community Map Pack, and from 
"Operation: Kill BJ!"), but the guard placement is a little awkward, and I'm also 
about ready to ditch the whole level for one with a different opening scenario.  
The map might be too hard also, like people said my "See Not Touch" map was.  I found 
the level rather entertaining though (as was the point;  my mod was all in fun), 
so it's here for all to enjoy.  And if one finds the content useful for their own 
mod, so be it!  :-D

BTW, the four-letter cheat is H+J+K+L instead of M+L+I.  If it doesn't work, hold 
down the H key, then hold down the J key along with it, and keep going until you 
have all four keys pressed down.  Sorry about that;  the key conbination doesn't 
work well in some versions of Windows XP.

- "Tricob".