BIG TIME GANGSTA v2.0 - by Majik Monkee
----------------------------------

Hey, gang, it's me again. This project was previously released under the "pen name" 
of Ronowen Vance, I figured I'd give it a proper release and take credit for my work, 
in case I expand upon it in the future, and that includes an updated "readme" from 
me with a little more info on the project. =)

WHY THE SECRET INITIAL RELEASE?
-------------------------------

As you'll probably notice once you start playing the mod, it's very unlike anything 
I've done before, featuring off color humor, some profanity and a rather obnoxious 
storyline. All in good fun, of course, but I initially feared the ability of the 
Wolf community to "get the joke", and didn't want to tarnish my reputation. I should 
have had more faith in everyone, though, as the mod was accepted for what it was 
supposed to be, and pretty well received. I would like to state that I personally 
am not a real big fan of "gangsta" related films or games, or even the lifestyle 
for that matter, but with this project, I was aiming for something a little bit different. 
=D

STORY
-----

You can read the story in "bad@ss gangsta speak" if you wait after the title screen 
of the game, but here's the basic premise: 

"You were once the main bodyguard of Mr. Big, the most powerful and influential gangster 
in all of Big Town. You had it all, except for one thing - Mr. Big's gorgeous #1 
girl. Overconfident in your ability to avoid the "eyes on the street", you eventually 
put the moves on her, and shortly thereafter, she turned up dead. To make matters 
worse, Mr. Big framed you for the murder, and you wound up in jail for a full ten 
years.

Luckily for you, the justice system isn't entirely on Mr. Big's side, and you managed 
to get released after new evidence surfaced pointing out you couldn't possibly have 
committed the murder. After an "I'm sorry" from the government, you've been released 
to go restart your life. Problem is, Mr. Big is still angry with you, and now, he's 
scared you're going to come after him. How well he knows you. And so, we begin our 
story with you, gun in hand, making your grand entrance into Big Town...and it's 
kill or be killed..."

OVERVIEW
--------

The objective of each level is to find the silver key in each level and finish off 
the boss holding the gold key that will allow you in to the next area. Pretty simple, 
it's just the staying alive part that gets tricky. Oh, and just to warn you, the 
bosses are based on the boss coding from Operation: Letzterschutz, so they have some 
major health backing them up. The good news is, the game being based on O:L means 
you also get to find some of the "special weapons" from that mod, which will finish 
them off in no time =)

ENEMIES
-------

Kicker - replaces the dog, a guy in a tie who kicks you if he gets close

Mr. Big Militia - replaces the brown guard, wears green and uses an uzi

Gangsta - replaces the mutant, looks like the jungle soldier from O:L

Security Guard - replaces SS, usually only found guarding bosses

40 Ounce - the boss of Bigtown, Level 1 

Big Timer - the boss of Downtown, Level 2

Dr Death - the boss of Warehouses, Level 3

?????? - no telling what else you'll find if you look hard enough ;)

(more enemies may be introduced if more episodes are added)


CREDIT
------

Concept - Majik Monkee

Graphics - Majik Monkee (everything not credited to someone else), Mr Wolf (kicker, 
militia, gangsta), WSJ (security guard), walls and sprites were also taken from Wolfendoom 
and Spear Resurrection

Mapping - Majik Monkee

Music - converted by Majik Monkee

Title "Fight for your Right" - Beastie Boys
Level 1 - "Fantastic Voyage" - Coolio
Level 2 - "Informer" - Snow
Level 3 - "Pump up the Jam" - Technotronic

Coding - WSJ (originally intended for Operation: Letzterschutz)

Special thanks to ID Software for releasing the original Wolf3D source code!


DISCLAIMER
----------

This mod is not intended to be sold or used to profit in any way. If you're doing 
so, stop it right away, or you could be the next sucka' spending ten years in jail! 
Don't do it!


Contact Majik Monkee - matthewmdmerrill@yahoo.com

