Mission Brief

The year is late 1944. Hundreds of miles away from the raging infernos of the European war zones, Adolf Hitler is doing his utmost to produce weapons of mass destruction. His quest to wipe out the Allied armies has led him to direct many of his top scientists away from conventional weaponry to develop biological agents. These will accomplish a twin aim:

(1) to exterminate - quickly and efficiently - the millions of Jews which he has rounded up and incarcerated in miserable concentration camps across Europe;

(2) to decimate the Allied forces which are advancing rapidly towards his capital, Berlin.  

And exactly where do you fit in, B.J.?

It is rumoured that the Nazi biological weapons programme is located in a virtually impassable region, 35 miles north-west of Vladivostok. No agent has ventured there before. We'll drop you off within a 10-mile radius of the complex ... it's up to you to penetrate the area, overcome the opposition, retrieve a vial or two of Hitler's deadly biological agent (possibly zyklon-B granules) as proof of his murderous intent and make it back to the rendezvous.  

Do remember that Siberian winters are notoriously harsh. Frostbite has a nasty habit of claiming anyone the enemy misses.   

OVERVIEW ... pt.1

Level 1-1: You've just made it inside the main gates of the compound ... an easy level just to ease you into the groove.

Level 1-2: Better start running as soon as you commence this one ... and make sure it's in the right direction! You'll still have to manage with your standard-issue pistol for a little while longer ... .

Level 2:1: A major surprise awaits you - and when you get a sight of it, you'll not want it to happen too often!

Level 2:2: It's all about the blue key ... just when you think you've got it, it proves elusive - and then you've got a REAL battle on your hands to get it in your mitt!

Level 3:1: Be careful how you go ... and make sure you open the right doors.

Level 3:2: Round about 30 extra enemies in this one ... and they tend to make their presence felt. The rocket launcher you pick up near the start of this level will not stop smoking!

Level 3:3: If you've played Clubey's Level 1-1 of 'In The Wolves Lair,' you'll be pretty familiar with the layout of this level. Stay alert ... the highest number of enemies yet - all 110 of them - and most of them are not trying to tickle you! 
OVERVIEW ... pt.2

Level 4-1: Once you get past a couple of wolf packs, this level becomes 'The Riddle of the Gold Key' - and you're going to need that gold key to get to the blue one ... Be patient!

Level 4-2: A real Mad Max level! With the maximum number of guards and the maximum number of objects, you could say that this one is pretty well stocked!

Level 5-1: A personal favourite ... . Don't ignore either the piles of bones or the pools of blood!

Level 5-2: Those wolves are sure popular in Siberia! Two additional enemy from the last round (now 88) ... but they're quite well tooled up!

Level 5-3: You've quite a task ahead of you to wade through an outer compound - all to get back inside the heat of one of the buildings!

Level 6-1: The central one of three consecutive levels that boasts more than 90 guards each ... this section of the complex seems to house a few guys who would be good discus throwers ... .

Level 6-2: More white walls - essential equipment tantalisingly placed - and a very determined garrison which says, "Level 6-3 you'll never see!"        

Level 6-3: What about meeting 18 mad 'boiler men' in the one room? That's the prospect that lies before you in this one ... take care of them and it's plain sailing (well, almost) to the lift!

Level 6-4: There must a cloning lab called 'Franz Factory' somewhere close by ... .

Level 6-5: You're set to spend a little time in the boiler room in this level ... just make sure the heat doesn't explode round your ears!

Level 6-6: What's white and red and has 105 black-hearted guards patrolling round it ...?

Level 7-1: The Moment of Truth ... need I say more??!! 
Oh yes, and what does the label say?

Level 7-2: Need to get out fast ... and that's decidedly easier said than done. That final corridor to safety is especially tricky, serving up a completely new lethal customer!

Finished?! So successfully?!

Keep an eye out for the postman - he's bound to be coming round with a special medal for you ... once you've thawed out sufficiently!   

INSTALLATION

Ą Drag Siberian Offensive into the "Levels" folder. 

Ą Open Wolfenstein 3D. 

Ą You will see a list of scenarios. Select Siberian Offensive from the list, and click OK.

... You're in business!!



REQUIREMENTS

Ą Siberian Offensive requires Wolfenstein 3DŞ Full Version.

If you don't have Wolfenstein 3DŞ, you may like to make enquiries from one of Wolfenstein's chief advocates, Josh Mills ... 
e-mail: copperfield@worldnet.att.net


Ą Siberian Offensive requires a lot of memory to run. I recommend at least 5 MB of memory. 

EDITING / UPLOADING

Siberian Offensive is FREEWARE ... i.e. you don't have to pay a dime for the pleasure (?) of wading through these levels. 

What I do ask is that if you edit Siberian Offensive and choose to upload it, please tell me about it and change its name to something else.

Graphics
I've no problem with you 'borrowing' the graphics. Many of my wall graphics are custom made (though I did borrow some material from various well known Wolf scenarios ... thanks to all the original authors!).
 
Circulating
Please send Siberian Offensive in its entirety to every corner of the internet. It may just do something to keep Wolfenstein 3D chugging along. Fact is, there are lots of people who still play this great game. Put this scenario on DVDs, CDs, Zips, or the plain old floppies - whatever. Just keep the original documentation with it.


IF STATS ARE YOUR GAME ...

By the time the glorious words "Cheers, Iceman" come up on your screen, the blood of over 1600 of Hitler's henchmen and wolf packs will have been spattered all over the floor and walls of this remote Siberian hideout. You'll have picked up almost 300 treasures in the process - including countless pairs of fur-lined boots, binoculars, shovels, and portable heaters ... I'm sure you never imagined there would be such valuable items strewn over the Siberian wastelands!  


FUTURE PROJECTS

This probably depends on how Siberian Offensive is received. C'mon, every editor appreciates some contact on some occasions. His mind can quickly translate it into inspiration ... .

I've had some very positive feedback from my first scenario to go on public release, Castle Hohenschastein. I appreciate that ... and would like to say a big "thank you" to everyone who corresponded with me. 

Special thanks is due to Clubey, both for permitting me to use some space on his internet site to accommodate my scenario - and for his constant suggestions and encouragement. 


Next Off The Production Line ...

Currently, I'm developing another new 20-level scenario: 
'Doctors' Conference.'

No need to tell you who'll feature heavily in that one!! I guess he's due an appearance since I completely dispensed with him in Castle Hohenschastein - and have found no use for him in Siberian Offensive, despite the arctic colour of his clothes!

Do contact me, either at: 

ian.brown@sparticus.net

or through:

The Wolfenmac Club at Yahoo