Text file accompanying the Wolf-Extra add-on to Wolfenstein 3-D.


1. Introduction and installation.

2. Changes to the graphics, enemies not included.

3. About the add-on.

4. About the levels.

5. The Story.

6. Bonus Level.

7. Release notes.

PS Notice on number of guards.



					1.

Thank you for wanting to play my add-on to Wolfenstein 3-D, Wolf-Extra.

Wolf-Extra has been created by using MapEdit by David Huntoon, Bryan Baker and Warren Buss to make the floors,
and WolfEdit by Bill Kirby for some changes to the graphics file (Vswap.wl6).

You will need the full registered version of Wolfenstein 3-D, including the Nocturnal Missions, by id Software/Apogee
to play my add-on.
Wolf-Extra includes 4 episodes, episodes 1-3 and 6, each including a secret floor.

How to install Wolf-Extra.
In a directory where you have the Wolfenstein game files, replace the files Gamemaps.wl6, Maphead.wl6 and Vswap.wl6
with the files included in Wolf-Extra.
IMPORTANT. Remember to keep back-ups of the original game files.

					

					2.
							
It is possible to run Wolf-Extra with the original Vswap.wl6 the lack of some of the changes will not be noticed while the
lack of others will make things look a little strange.
I have included some wall patterns and objects that I believe are from "Spear" and the Lost Episodes.
I don't own these games but I have picked up the images from other add-ons.
In Wolfenstein each wall consists of two images. A north/south side and an east/west side which is usually a darker version
of the north/south one. Some wall types come in different versions for variety.

These are the changes I have made to the graphics.

Walls.
Purple Brick, in - Purple Stone with blood, out.
Four versions of Brown and Gray Stone
including Nazi Flag and Gold Swastika, in - Four versions of Brown Cave, out.
One version of Brown Cave (without blood), back in - Gray Brick with big Adolf Hitler Poster, out.
Gray Steel Panel, in - Gray Brick with Map of British Channel, out.
Gray Marble-like Stone, in - Gray Stone version 3, out.
Colored Glass Swastika, in - Light side (north/south) of Entry Elevator Door, out.
An additional elevator image, in - "Empty" side (north/south) of Dead Elevator Control, out. (This side was never visible
in the original game.)

Objects.
Green Ghost, in - Light red Ghost, out.
Red and Yellow Ceiling Lights, in - Debris 1 and 2, out.
A modified version of Bloody Bones, in - Debris 3, out.

In addition the Water Puddle substitutes Pool of Blood and Bloody Bones as health powerup when below 10%.
I don't use this much, but have performed this change for those who got sick of that particularity.

There are a couple of other changes too, but these are not noticeable.



Some enemies that are not included in my levels.

Dogs. These are the least dangerous of the enemies (although they drain you of ammo without leaving any). They take up
space as guards, so I have left them out in favor of other enemies.
Besides I always hated to kill those poor dogs. And eating their miserable food afterwards made me feel guilty :-)

Gretel Grosse.
I never thought it a good idea to make you have to fight a girl. So Gretel is not included.



					3.

How this add-on came around.
Originally I created a dozen or so fairly big individual floors. Not finding time then to complete a full game I abandoned
the idea temporarily. Later I started to make several smaller floors often centered around special ideas.
Then I thought I should try to put all this together in missions. I expanded some of the smaller floors and created a few
extra big ones.


Please notice!
The "Death Incarnate" difficulty level in my set is designed to be as difficult as possible without being impossible!
All levels have been tested on "Death Incarnate" starting with only a pistol and 8 shots.
Starting with a more powerful gun and more shots will make it somewhat less difficult.



					4.

About the floors.
Getting through the levels involves both maze-solving and heavy fighting, enemies may be alarmed at varying moments and
start moving through different paths.
There is a lot of pushwalls (secret doors) and keys and elevators are sometimes found behind them, but during play you may
get hints on where to look for them.
Sometimes you may get guards to open a locked door for you, making it unnecessary to find the key.

Episode 3, floor 9! The silver key is the second key to be found on this floor. To get it you have to have someone opening
a door wich requires this very key (I mention this to prevent players from looking for pushwalls everywhere, thinking that
the silver key is in a secret area.)

Some doors into rooms or areas that you don't need to enter are locked, to prevent the player from moving in there initially.
Have someone opening them and you may get to secret areas or short cuts.
Some levels have areas where you may get locked in, either by locked doors or pushwalls. But there will always be a way out.
Exceptions to this are a few single rooms with doors requiring keys. A player should notice this and get out before the door
closes. Anyway, when a guard opens a locked door it is always wise to shoot him in the doorway to make the door stay open.

Dead guards.
I have positioned initially dead guards in some places. There are special reasons for this, you will soon find out what
these are.

I have taken care to prevent guards from moving in the way of pushwalls that you need to open. Some very rare situations may
occur however where you may have shot a guard in front of a pushwall that you later may need to push from the other side.
This will happen only VERY rarely. But, and unless you want to play without saving at all, you should save your game at
several places and in different slots.

If you really feel stuck somewhere send me some words about it (what floor you are stuck on etc.). You may of course also
look at the maps using the Wolf-Extra Hint Manual (or Mapedit), or have someone else doing it to give you some vague hints
without spoiling the gameplay. 


Small floors.
Most of the small floors are found in Episode 1. They cover the same area and the elevator positions correspond with the
starting positions that follow. This gives the impression of moving up through an underground castle. Each floor has its
own wall pattern. These small levels are not easy, there is a lot of enemies and puzzles to solve.


Bonuses.
You will not always be able to get 100% on "secrets". Pushing some walls eliminate the possibility of pushing others.
So you should not go for that bonus.

You will almost always be able to get 100% on "kill". There are a few exceptions, but in these cases you will understand
why you can't get the bonus.

You will always be able to get 100% on "treasure". So try to get this bonus.

Whatever you do you will almost always be able to get to all the rooms one way or another.
There are a few exceptions:
On a floor in episode 2 there is a room with a pushwall that moves sideways revealing dead guards.
Pushing this secret door the wrong way prevents you from getting to several secret areas.
On a floor in episode 3 some secret doors eliminate others without there being other entrances to the rooms that
get blocked.


The 1-Up.
In my version of Wolfenstein 3-D (V1.4) the 1-Up gives you 25 shots (on all difficulty levels).
I have read that in some versions the 1-Up gives full ammo (99 shots).
I have calculated with 25 shots when I have put 1-Ups into the levels.
If your version of Wolfenstein 3-D gives you 99 shots with a 1-Up, quite simply fire 74 shots minus what you had
into the nearest wall. (just kidding).


Stationary objects.
Guards can shoot at you past stationary objects (and you at them). If super guards with missiles, syringes etc. are
placed in such a position they too will try to hit you past stationary objects, but these objects will actually stop
the on-coming missiles. The super guards will in that case not "notice" this but will continue to try to hit you,
while you can empty your chaingun on them at your ease.
Such a situation never occurred in the original game, and also in my levels the possibility of getting a row of columns
or other stationary objects between the player and such a super guard is eliminated.
In a couple of instances there is a theoretical possibility of getting into such a position though. But the chances that
you should manage this are very small.


I have made my levels not to include bugs/strange effects such as guards remaining deaf, guards shooting at you without
hurting you (floor code problems) or walls you can walk through. Should you come across any of these or other illogical
things, send me some words.


Deaf guards.
Some guards in Wolfenstein are "deaf", they will never act on hearing you, but only if they see you or get shot at.
They have what one might call a "wider angle of view", but if you are straight behind them they will not notice you
before you enter the square next to them.

Super guards are always "deaf". They seem to be constantly looking in your direction, but (and this may be of interest
for those who want to create their own levels) like other "deaf" guards they have a blind side. If you encounter a
super guard from this side he will not notice you (although he appears to see you) before you start shooting or enter
the square next to him.

In my levels you will always be noticed by a super guard immediately.

For most of the super guards the blind side is towards north. Exceptions are Fake Hitler, Otto Giftmacher and
Gretel Grosse (not used in my levels). These have the blind side towards south.



					5.

The Story.

You start in episode 1 where you find yourself locked up in a cell. You were gathering information about Operation
Eisenfaust, and it is essential that you break out of your cell and fight yourself through the underground castle of
Wolfenstein to get on to Castle Hollehammer to stop Doctor Schabbs.

In episode 2 you enter Hollehammer and encounter the mutants. You know you have to kill Schabbs on floor 9.
But beware! He may be lurking around in secret areas on some of the other floors.
If you find him (or he finds you!), remember to save the game before fighting him. 
Once he is killed the episode ends. Then you reload and spare him for another occasion, (there is always a way to get
to the elevator.)

After finally defeating Doctor Schabbs you don't have much time. Some of the mutants have already been put to work, and
the Nazis are determined to conquer the world with every other means as well, such as chemical and nuclear warfare.
The man who is to carry out all this is General Fettgesicht. You move on to episode 6 to stop him.

Then you move to episode 3.
The Nazi regime is crumbling. Adolf Hitler has only one thing in his mind. To ruin the whole world.
Only you stand between him and his final goal. Good luck!
Like Schabbs Adolf is lurking around in secret areas on some of the floors prior to floor 9.



					6.

Bonus Level.

Like in the original Wolfenstein I had planed to put in a competition (I even designed my own "Aardwolf" sign).
All who found it would have been able to mail me, and receive a Bonus Level.
But knowing that honest players could try hard to find it without succeeding while others would just look at the maps,
I canceled it. (The same reason that id/Apogee once had).

I originally put the "Hero" sign nearby a bed in a room with no enemies. This is the only place in my set of levels where
there is a bed. I thought of this room as a "Hero's retreat". Where the sign used to be there is now a One-Up.
Where the One-Up was originally there is now a Chaingun. The Chaingun was originally nearby too.

So the Bonus Level is included in the set, making the set consisting of a total of 41 levels.
You get to play the Bonus Level by starting episode 4. In this level you fight Otto Giftmacher.
(This level fits in the story between Episode 2 and Episode 6.)



					7.
Wolf-Extra release notes.

The current version of Wolf-Extra is v2.04. Final version.

Since the original release I have made some changes to Wolf-Extra. The main reason for this is that while working
on it I failed to save several minor though in some cases important changes.
I discovered this after having released the add-on, when I played some of the levels.
All levels have now been tested anew. Corrections have been made as well as some new improvements.
It is very unlikely that there will be any more changes to Wolf-Extra.
Should it happen however the changes will be documented on
http://home.online.no/~p-olstad/wolfenstein/release.html.

Wolf-Extra is freeware and may only be distributed free of charge.
All four files must be included, and no other.

The author of Wolf-Extra kindly requests people not to modify Wolf-Extra nor use part of it in other add-ons.





Making this set of levels for Wolfenstein 3-D was hard work but great fun.
I hope players will find these levels interesting and fun to play.



Paal Olstad.



Any comments on Wolf-Extra? p-olstad@online.no



PS

IMPORTANT NOTICE ON NUMBER OF GUARDS.
In Wolfenstein there is a limit to how many guards there can be on a floor. The number is 149.
If there are more guards than that in a level, an error message, "get newactor-no free spots in objlist",
will occur as soon as the level is loaded.

The running hero at the end of Episode 1 counts as 1 moving object. The total number of guards that can be
put in a level with such an ending is therefor 148.
If there is one more the error message will occur when the hero starts running.

The Adolf Hitler super guard uses two moving objects, Mecha Hitler and Adolf Hitler. Here too the total number is 148.
If there is one more the error message will occur when Hitler loses his armor.

On floors with super guards with special shooting devices (like missiles etc.) the number is further reduced,
due to the fact that these devices take up space as moving objects. When a super guard (or boss) with such a weapon
starts shooting, the before mentioned error message will occur if the number of missiles flying through the air at the
same time plus the number of guards in the level (dead or living) succeeds 149.
The longer the distance to the super guard the more missiles will fly simultaneously.

There is in fact no way one can say for sure how many guards it is "safe" to put in a level together with such a super guard.



Super guards with missiles or other flying weapons in Wolf-Extra.

Giftmacher and Fettgesicht.
Otto Giftmacher (see Bonus Level) and General Fettgesicht appear in one level each. These levels have a fairly big
number of enemies (Death Incarnate), but substantial testing has proven that you don't get the error message in any of them.

Doctor Schabbs.
The same has been tested with Doctor Schabbs. This super guard throws his syringes with lesser frequency
than the others shoot missiles or fire balls.

Fake Hitler.
Levels with Fake Hitler (Ghost Hitler) are most vulnerable regarding this particular error message since this super guard
shoots quite a lot of fire balls in a row.
The Fake Hitler appears in some of my levels. A couple of them have a big number of enemies (Death Incarnate).
Episode 3 floor 9: Your first encounter with Fake Hitlers on this floor is in a hallway where there are two of them.
If you manage to get to one end of this hallway while both of them are at the other end firing, you may get the
mentioned error message. This will not happen in normal play, but you may enforce it.
Episode 3 floor 10: In this level it is possible that you might get the error message if you manage to
get the Fake Hitler into one of several long corridors, but normally you will not do that.

The error message will prompt you to call Apogee. DON'T DO THAT. Take it out on me instead :-)

IN SHORT: THIS PARTICULAR ERROR MESSAGE WILL NOT APPEAR IN ANY OF MY LEVELS EXCEPT POSSIBLY IN THESE TWO, AND
THEN ONLY IF YOU TRY HARD.

All the same, should you get this error message unintentionally let me know!



Some other notes.

In the original Wolfenstein game you could sometimes get an error message, "no purgable blocks", when loading a saved game.
This may also happen when playing my levels. Again don't call Apogee.

Walls changing pattern.
Some times wall blocks change pattern (to Gray Stone). It seems it can happen if you whirl around a lot while fighting.
This too could also happen in the original Wolfenstein game.

Lastly.
While working on the add-on and testing the levels I experinced a couple times that when I got killed and started at the
beginning of the level with a new life, the view port had shrunk and the border was flashing.
I have no explanation to this. I have seen it happen in other add-ons, but never in the original game.
Should it happen just choose the "change view" option, resize the view port and go back to the current game
or load a saved one.


P. O.
