THE BLACK HOUSE: USER MANUAL v1.0
---------------------------------
by Majik Monkee


INTRODUCTION
------------
Hey, gang, and welcome to my thirteenth mod! Ironic number, since it's intended to 
be a horror mod and all. This mod represents a couple of firsts for me. First of 
all, it's only one level long, where my shortest previous effort has been four levels. 
Second, all of my previous mods have been action and adventure genre mods, while 
this mod is more of a survival horror experiment. I don't expect that everyone will 
be a huge fan, as it's a bit more difficult than my previous efforts, but I'm sure 
there are more than a few seasoned Wolfers out there up to the challenge!


WHAT IS 'SURVIVAL HORROR'?
--------------------------
I'm sure most of you already know, but for those of you who don't here's just a general 
overview. Unlike action shooters, where the player is armed to the teeth, survival 
horror games tend to put the player in a situation where they are outnumbered and 
under-prepared for the challenges that face them. In "The Black House", that's pretty 
much what you get. There are quite a few enemies, while ammo and health are very 
scattered, and need to be searched for to be found. Careful searching will be rewarded, 
though, and remember, this mod is very winnable...if you're cautious!


THE BLACK HOUSE STORY
---------------------
In the remote woodlands of New England, there is a place where birds do not sing. 
Squirrels do not play amid the branches of towering trees, snakes and lizards do 
not slither along the forest floor. It is this expanse of land that God's creatures, 
by instinct, avoid, and have for a millenia, for reasons that the human senses cannot 
comprehend. Sometimes, a place itself can be "wrong"...a place can be a black place...


1912 - Wealthy brothers Samuel and Mathias Black purchase the above described region 
of woodland territory for pennies on the acre. There, they construct a massive estate, 
large enough to house their families and servants with room to spare for the occasional 
guest. However, less than a month after the house is completed, tragedy strikes in 
the form of a mysterious Black Plague type disease that infects and eventually kills 
Samuel, Mathias, and all those who dwell with them in the house. The house is left 
vacant for a number of years, for fear that the disease may yet linger.

1932 - Surviving heir Peter Black attempts to remodel the Black estate, and open 
it to the public as a woodland inn/lodge of sorts. Things go well for a while, then 
one chilly winter night, a grotesque deformed vagrant comes seeking shelter from 
the elements without any money. Peter turns him away out of disgust, casting him 
out into the cold in shame. That night, every resident of the lodge, Peter included, 
is murdered in their sleep by an unseen killer with a butcher knife.

1976 - An unrelated business man purchases the Black House, and attempts to remodel 
the deteriorating structure, hoping to revive the dream of turning it into an inn. 
After four workers witness an attack on a fellow worker by a small, grotesque creature 
that had been hiding in a closet, the company hired to do the remodel buys out the 
contract and leaves. No other companies are willing to take the job, and the house 
is once again abandoned.

2012 - The present...

Mandy sighed heavily, watching her breath form a fog inside her windshield. Putting 
her Impala in "park", she pushed open her door and stepped out into the chilly New 
England night, listening to the crushed rock of the road beneath her sneakers. This 
is what she got for waiting till the last minute, she thought to herself.

Mandy was heading back to college after spending a week back home over Spring Break, 
and as usual, had waited too long to begin the return trip. Her smart phone navigation 
software had suggested a shortcut using a lightly traveled road that had once been 
used for transporting lumber for Great Central Lumber of New England. While the road 
itself was no paved highway, it was far from terrible, and the shortcut seemed to 
be working well, until she came upon the accident...

A State Trooper's cruiser was sitting askew, tail lights glowing red in the night, 
with the front end smashed into a tree fallen partially across the road. The tree 
itself could be driven around, but the cruiser itself was a problem. Mandy circled 
the vehicle, slowly approaching the driver side window, expecting to see the worst, 
but the vehicle was empty. At least something was going right...

Mandy moved around to the passenger side of the vehicle, not sure what she expected 
to find, and noticed a path into the woods, bathed in the red glow of the cruiser's 
tail lights. Someone had to have driven the vehicle to this point, and since there 
was no sign of them around, it seemed likely that they may have gone looking for 
help, if none had arrived already. Mandy considered calling 911 to report the accident, 
then noticed that her phone had no signal to speak of. Of course not.

Unsure of whether she should call for help or try to find a way to move the police 
cruiser, Mandy decided she was going to need a working phone, one way or the other. 
Squinting, she thought she could just make out a light in the distance in the direction 
the path seemed to go. She surely wasn't crazy about the idea of walking through 
the woods in the dark at night, but she'd been following the road she was on for 
a good twenty miles, and backtracking would seriously extend her trip. She still 
had a couple hundred miles to go to reach the campus, and an English presentation 
worth half her grade due first thing in the morning. Yes, she'd rather suck it up 
and take a walk in the woods than risk missing class...

Mandy began her trek into the woods, and noticed it seemed much darker on the trail 
than it had out on the road. She discovered this was because the trees adjacent to 
the path all seemed to lean inward, forming a sort of canopy or tunnel, blocking 
out the moonlight. She turned on her flashlight app on her phone, and used it to 
illuminate the path. There wasn't much to see besides dirt and rock that formed the 
path and the tree trunks that formed a wall on either side of her. Every so often, 
she thought she saw animals quickly dart away just as the light from her phone almost 
touched upon them. Not everyone disliked the dark the way Mandy did. All at once, 
the trees gave way on both sides to a clearing, and Mandy got her first look at the 
house...

The structure was enormous, bigger than any house Mandy had ever seen, although it 
seemed to recede into the trees an either side, making it impossible to tell just 
how wide it actually was. Mandy noticed a complete lack of windows on the ground 
floor, but she was correct in thinking she had seen a light - from a small second 
story window, the only light source within miles beckoned to her. She followed the 
trail to what appeared to be a front door, and knocked loudly, several times. No 
answer. This was an emergency, she thought to herself, there was no time for manners...


Mandy tried the door knob, and while it was a little sticky to turn, it gave when 
she gave it a good twist. The door seemed extremely solid and heavy, and made a loud 
creaking noise as she pushed it open. She stuck her head in just a little ways. "Hello?" 
There was no answer. She tried again, but nothing. She decided to step inside just 
enough to see if there was a phone she could get to easily. She pushed on the door, 
a bit more, but it gave way unexpectedly to her weight, causing her to stumble into 
the house. Two things happened all at once...the door slammed shut behind her, followed 
by a click, and she saw the body.

Mandy gasped, and it felt like an eternity before she was able to exhale. Before 
her, in a pool of blood, was the body of a state trooper, with a knife protruding 
from its chest. By instinct, she swung around to the door, but found there was no 
visible knob on the inside, just a keyhole. She pushed against the door, but to no 
avail. It was extremely solid, and wasn't going anywhere without a key. Turning around, 
she observed there were three other doors in the room she could try, assuming she 
wanted to. There was a murdered man at her feet, and where there were murdered men, 
there was usually a murderer as well.

Mandy suddenly became aware of the musty smell that had invaded her nostrils, the 
smell of age and decay, mixed with the sour metallic smell of the police officer's 
blood. She wanted to retch, but she had a feeling she'd better hang on to the contents 
of her stomach...she might need her strength. Reluctantly, Mandy grasped the knife 
in the dead man's chest, careful not to look at his pale, dead face, and pulled it 
out. It made a slurping noise as it slid out, and she wiped the blade on the dead 
man's uniform. If there was someone in the house who might consider harming her, 
she would be ready to hurt them back if needed. Then she noticed the officer's gun, 
still holstered at his side.

It had been years since Mandy had fired a gun at the shooting range with her father, 
but she'd been a fair shot, even at an early age. She pulled the weapon from the 
holster, and was surprised by how heavy it felt. The weight was something of a comfort, 
though. Eight bullets. Eight shots should be enough to stop a killer, she thought, 
but the state trooper hadn't tried or had time to pull the gun out before he was 
killed, and she'd need to be careful alert to avoid the same fate. Realizing her 
situation wasn't going to improve just standing in one place, Mandy took a step forward, 
beginning her venture into the unknown. There had to be a key to the front door or 
another exit, and she intended to find it, or die trying... 


GAMEPLAY   
--------
This mod consists of one very large floor where the story unfolds. As such, I'm not 
going to give away much regarding the game itself, otherwise there will be nothing 
left to discover! The controls in the game are identical to those of the original 
Wolfenstein, so I'm not going to go over them here (and as always, they can be customized 
if you like). I will, however, go over a couple of basics to help you get started 
and increase chances of survival.

- Ammo and health are a little less abundant than in most mods. Also, they are generally 
only in "realistic" locations, so you won't usually find food laying out in hallways 
or ammo in a bathroom, etc.

- Completing this mod relies on one thing - defeating a boss enemy. You will most 
definitely NOT have sufficient ammunition to kill it when you first come across it, 
but the more you conserve ammo, the sooner you can finish the boss. In other words, 
don't use the gun when the knife will do the trick.

- Not everything that moves can hurt you. Take a moment to make sure something isn't 
just randomly wandering before using weapons. Don't wait TOO long though!


CREDITS
-------
Thanks to Andy Nonymous for the hard work that's gone into coding this mod, as well 
as for being a sounding board for some ideas I wanted to discuss. In regard to other 
aspects of the mod such as graphics, music, story, etc, those were handled by me, 
Majik Monkee. I'd rather not list the source of sprites or sounds in this manual, 
as they may spoil surprises, but if you have any questions regarding any material 
in this mod, please email me at: matthewmdmerrill<at>yahoo<dot>com and I'll be happy 
to provide that information!


GETTING STUCK?
--------------
If you have questions about the mod or require tips, cheats, etc, please feel free 
to email me at: matthewmdmerrill<at>yahoo<dot>com, and I'll do the best I can to 
help. Remember, this mod is difficult, but not impossible!


-Majik Monkee-   