HELLO,MY FREINDS!



Welcome to the easy-ass way to learn how to make good Wolfenstein levels with WolfEdit 1.1,or higher!





OK,HERE WE GOOOOO!!!!!!!! 



Ok,Let's get started...


First thing's first...

(((Click me)))


Oh,yeah...whenever you see an anarchy symbol,there's going to be something important behind it!

Anyway...

1. Always remember to test your levels whenever you make a new revision! I have seen too many levels where people obviously didn't do this,and inevitably missed something,beit a bug,glitch,missing exit,(seriously),inoperable doors or secrets,(which I have fixed in the past just to play the level),or even a missing wall (causing the game to crash my system),and it's BAD!
(I don't mean crappy,I mean downright terrible!)

2.Be creative! Continuity wouldn't hurt,either...
TRY to hide the secrets..OK?
It REALLY looks obvious when you see an entire wall of grey blocks--and then one red brick one in the middle. Thank you,Dr.Obvious...

3.Now,I know this sounds unneccesary,but...
The Wolfenstein 3D engine can only handle so much in a particular floor!
DO NOT,and I repeat,DO NOT exeed its limits!
This looks soooooo stupid!
After a certain number of objects,guards,and items,64 per room,200 per floor,things will start disappearing and reappering at random...this may SOUND cool,but it doesn't look that way!
At this point,slowdown will occur,as well;so go easy on the engine,will ya?

4.Also,I don't find it cool to walk into a room and see a dozen guards staring at me,either.
I really don't appreciate that kind of stuff,and neither will your audience.  

Chapter 2:Getting started   

CHAPTER 3: GUARDS!

1.Your most useful guard (besides a boss) will be a sleeping guard. (You know,the one with a giant Z over his head?)
They are extremely useful in the fact that the only shoot on sight. Try placing them around tight corners...OUCH!

2.Remember:No Z,no control!
Plain guards will hunt you down as soon as they can hear you.
Use this in your strategy of level making.

3.WOOF! Everyone's favorite,dogs!
I will admit,they are VERY limited,(come on,they cant open doors,and don't drop ammo...wait,that could be used...),but they come in handy...
One thing I like to do is put a couple of dogs somewhere,and then put some dog food closeby,you know,for novelty purposes?



CHAPTER 4: BOSSES!


1.This is a touchy area that I'm going to tackle,but if I must...
Be careful with boss placement,don't put him too close to an entrance or exit...make the player sweat a little.

2.Also,when using multiple bosses,make sure there is enough ammo & health to go between them.

3.An exception,here: if using multiples,you'll probably already have all keys necsessary to complete the level;then,maybe putting a random boss directly at the exit is OK.


CHAPTER 5: ITEMS!


1.Well,just remember to have plenty of items to break up the monotony of killing people.

2.Try to hide them by matching them as closely as possible with an object or wall texture.

3.In big rooms,put 'em in far corners.

4.Putting them in open spaces where guards would be triggered is not a bad idea,either...


CHAPTER 6: TREASURE!


1.Put some out in the open,some in hidden rooms,and some in inconspicuous places-make  'em hunt for it...

2.Lots of treasure in rooms that bosses are in comes off pretty cool,too.


CHAPTER 7: SECRETS!


1.Don't make them too obvious--click me!Ę

2.Another tip:did you know that the same block can be pushed over and over? It's true! Check the diagram...


Decoration optional...

3.Don't always put them in a corner or center of a wall...mix it up!
Try putting them where they wouldn't have time to think about it...   


CHAPTER 8: MICSELLANEOUS!


1.THEME! THEME!! THEME!!!
Repititititititititition sucks without a theme!
Try to liven up your levels from time to time!
Maybe some thought and originality,maybe?

2.The Readme document...
Take some time and think up a good story to go with your level-I know you can do it.   



Well,that's all for now.
If you have any questions,comments,or sugestions,e-mail me at:



 MWatson361



(Click here to quit)