Episode 2
On the Trail of Schabbs



Your last mission was a glowing success, for now we know of the location of the Spear. 
Top operatives will go to this castle and obtain the Spear. But right now Blazkowicz 
you must go to the small castle located near and under a swamp in Dresden. We have 
sent several top operatives to this location only to hear their screams of death 
over their portable phones. Luckily one of our operatives managed to escape near 
the helicopter  point with his life, but not his arms.  After our doctors patched 
him up he told us the whole story. It goes like this: As they approached the castle 
they heard various screams of pain then nothing at all. They thought little of it 
since the castle had a few dungeons, so they advanced.  As they rounded a corner 
they saw a rather disgusting sight. This creature was consuming one of the Nazi guards. 
One of the agents opened fired and killed the thing. As they neared the dead bodies 
they where greeted by a large amount of gunfire from behind. Many died from this 
sneak attack while others where critically wounded. After this firefight only one 
agent remanded. He looked over his fallen agents to see if one o them could be alive. 
Nope, not one. As he stood, he felt a shooting pain in his right arm. He turned his 
head to she if he was shoot only to find a large portion of his arm was missing. 
He managed to get close to the pick up point but fainted. Luckily someone on the 
allied side found him.


Later that week, we sent one more operative to this location. He reported that he 
saw a large amount of  troops being amassed, and three high ranking leaders, but 
no “creatures”. The three leaders are Hans & Gretel Grosse and someone who couldn’t 
 be recognized because the agent never saw his face. He also noticed a large shipment 
of chemicals being stored in the castle. In direct violation of the convention.
You must go there take out the three leaders and see if you could find evidence of 
these “creatures”.















RIGHT NOW I PERSONALY WOULD LIKE TO THANK BJ ROWAN FOR MAKING THE NEW EXE. FOR ME. 
IF IT WAS’NT FOR HIM THIS PROJECT WOULD’VE NEVER BEEN MADE, THANKS BJ      
