  ALL THIS & WOLF 3D
                    MANUAL

SPECS

This read-me works best with "WordPad". Thanks.

INTRODUCING

This is "All This and Wolf 3D", created by me, Thomas Weiling, and EXE compiled by 
Chris Chokan. It was in progress from November 2005-Somewhere 2006. I made all the 
maps myself. It's made  experimenting with the 4GW coding program Watcom. 

CODING CHANGES INCLUDE:

- Amount of maps changed from 60 to 70
- Amount of static objects changed from 399 to 999
- Amount of guards changed from 149 to 499
- New music from Spear of Destiny
- Seamless level flow, other Hex Editing

STORY

1945.

It’s rumoured that in an old German castle, lots of mystic stuff is going on. The 
castle is located on the summit of the Black Forest in the west of Germany, and the 
local people are sure that the castle has been taken over by Nazis. But what will 
the Nazis use an old castle for? 

The leader Hitler is planning to invade USA in about a couple of weeks, so the OSA 
must set their best spy into this case. His name is…B.J. Blazkowicz.

You must find Hitler, and kill him! That is your mission. There are 70 floors in 
this big castle, so you must be strong and take a lot of consequences here. 

LEVEL GUIDE

This castle is split up in several units; all of them have a different objective. 


LEVELS 1-10: LOWER CASTLE.

As you enter the fortress, you're already in a big assault between guards, dogs and 
SS agents. All of them are against you, and show no mercy. The two first levels here 
are tunnels, on level 2 you will meet the officer. The rest of the levels are very 
different. Level 3 is only guarded by SS. Officers kinda disappear, and their only 
appearance in this unit is level 2 and 7. You will meet the mutant on level 5, and 
they also have their "own" level. Level 9 is only guarded by mutants, 99%, there's 
only one or two guards left. Level 10 houses Hans Grosse, which you must kill to 
succeed to the next unit.

LEVELS 11-20: LOWER MANSION.

These ten levels are partly different from the last ten. Some places reminds of a 
bunker. Here you will face a big officer stronghold on the first level, 11. They 
are fast and supposedly very wealthy here. Their quarters are some of the finest. 
Most of the levels are darker than the first unit, and some may remind of each other. 
Level 12 is a tunnel, but not as feculent as the one on level 9. After you passed 
it, you will return to the Lower Mansion unit. Level 14 is an "Officer-free" area, 
which makes it a little easier. Level 16 is a prison, placed in the middle of the 
mansion to keep the guards busy. Level 19 is in a big lounge. Like level 11, there 
are only officers. You will fight General Fettgesicht on level 20, in his big cavy 
complex.

LEVELS 21-30: LOWER SECURITY.

Mostly taking time on the officers and the SS, this unit is one of the hardest. It’s 
the first “security” unit… all ten levels are very hard, and you can’t just decline. 
They're all heavy guarded and some are similar in style. You gotta have gravel in 
your guts and spit in your eye on this one! Level 21 is a “Hideaway” like a subterranean 
version of a bunker unit. Lots of good stuff here though. Level 30 has Otto von Giftmacher 
as leader. He’s very tough, and guarded by his beloved officers.

LEVELS 31-40: THE LABORATORIES.

These ten levels are completely different from the others. No bunkers here. Here, 
you will infiltrate Dr. Schabbs’ huge laboratory unit, with most of his mutants and 
some of the guards he wanted to have on his level. Level 31 is a “waste lair” mostly 
a big dump for all the nuclear failed experimental results. Level 32 is yet another 
guarding shield with lots of mutants. You will pass through a lot of nuclear units, 
and may be a victim of radioactivity. But you can take it… Schabbs is on level 40. 
A compounded office-lab. May God be with you!

LEVELS 41-50: UPPER CASTLE.

This is another kind of the first unit. A little tougher, cleaner in design and a 
little more guards. You start direct after defeating Schabbs, entering as good old 
castle level. Though, this is more in style with a plain bunker level. The next two 
level consists an entrance and a cellar. There is a little difference between those 
two, but you will enter the castle itself at level 44. Level 49 is the castle summit. 
Reminds of an outpost though. Trans Grosse, brother of Hans Grosse, is at the last 
level in this unit, 50. And he’s mad at you.

LEVELS 51-60: UPPER MANSION.

Yet another upper part of the castle. This one is more bright and welcoming than 
the Lower Mansion unit, and very easy to deal with. Level 58 though, is tough. It’s 
the end of the castle, the mouth, and is a little more filled up with mutants than 
the other levels. Level 59 is a getaway tunnel, which is like a walkthrough. Still, 
mutants galore. Gretel Grosse, sister of Trans & Hans, are on level 60. She’s more 
mad than Trans…

LEVELS 61-70: UPPER SECURITY.

This is the end. You now reached the last part of the big castle, which is much more 
different apart from the former unit. This is twice as mutant-guarded, three times 
more with the SS and the officers, and… five times more with the guards. You’re really 
screwed now... unless you can handle it. Level 69 is a weird, but more calm than 
the other levels, and has only mutants, not many though. Level 70 is Hitler’s huge, 
hellish, demonized, crazy, antibiotic infected area, where he resides someplace…find 
him and liquidate him.

LEVELS OF INTEREST

Level 1 - Enter the castle and get a move on!
Level 3 - As told, it's only guarded by SS agents. It's tough at times, so be careful 
and remember to save a lot in this level.
Level 5 - This is a level with... hold on...34 secret passages! This level is huge, 
so it'll maybe take you time to succeed to the next. It's heavy guarded.
Level 6 - The previous level may had 34 secret passages, but this one has...39. There's 
much to look at. There is so many, so a part of them won't be too difficult to find. 

Level 7 - A funny surrounding level, which is quite easy, but it'll may take you 
a little time to learn how to get through the barracks.
Level 8 - Very bright level. It's a big compound, sort of outpost, and is also quite 
big. Remember... save a lot on this level!
Level 9 - Mutants are priority in this level, and a little more than the half of 
it is a viny maze. It's pretty difficult to kill all the mutants in the mazes. Watch 
out!
Level 10 - The first boss level. Some secret passages will block the key, so be careful 
where you push!
Level 13 - Big castle. Lots of secrets, and "multi-guarded". The first level with 
a mixture of all the guards.
Level 16 - Prison. Only guarded by the Wehrmacht guards, and pretty easy in moderation. 
It's a big momma though, and filled with secrets. Not as many as level 5, though.

Level 20 - The second boss level. Here you will meet General Fettgesicht, who is 
very difficult. He's guarded up in his cave level by only SS and officers. Just like 
Episode 6...
Level 21 - This level doesn't "belong" to any unit. It's a plain bunker-kind level, 
with some few mixes, which is a "Hideaway". It's not hidden though.
Level 23 - Introducing to Security unit. More guards, many annoying dogs, and the 
difficulty has rissen. You better watch your step in this level.
Level 26 - You'll may notice the many oil drums in this level, and the rest of the 
levels in this unit have tons of them. It's kind of a storage for the next unit, 
the laboratories.
Level 29 - Even though this is the summit of the security area, it's not a heavy 
guarded level. Quite on the same niveau as the rest of this here unit. Next level 
is Giftmacher! 
Level 30 - The third boss level; it houses Otto von Giftmacher, a nuclear-admirer 
and together with Schabbs he constructed the laboratory you'll enter after defeating 
him.

SO WHY DIDN'T YOU FOLLOW THE NEW MODDING STYLE?

Why am I making games which uses the original base (Nazi Operation for example)? 
I really like it. Classic Wolf has always been my business. And it has been a lotta 
fun being in Wolfenstein's modding world for almost three years. When I joined DieHard 
Wolfers Forum in 2004, I was the biggest noob of them all... I think. Tried my best 
english, thought that some Abandon maps were cool and such... it brings memories. 
I wish I'd been in Wolf Community when it started all back in 1998 or something... 
I like surfing the Dome Archives through to see all the old, good working, when exploding 
oil drums was phenomenal, when Totengraeber was the best and all the good old pioneers 
tried their way through. Classic Wolf was also good back then, and "mods" in particular. 
With changed graphics, sounds and such...which inspired me to Abandon and Operation 
Achtliebe. It has also made me wonder lately. I tried with "Abandon III" but that 
failed...and I stuck back to originality. It's fair'n'square.

It also reminds me of my first coded TC. "Project Wolfgeist"...I really loved working 
on it, during christmas '04..just three months after I was introduced to mapping 
(Remember Abandon v. 0.0 from february?) with new graphics, new enemy, missile launcher 
and all that. But in a hands of a newbie, it's mistreated.

WHAT'S NEXT?

I'm dreaming of putting together an excellent set of levels for Totengraeber or Spear 
of Destiny. I'm geeky about Totengraeber, but know nothing about Spear. That's my 
goal.

OTHER MODS BY ME

"Abandon", released December 5th, 2004. http://www.wolfenstein3d.co.uk/abandon1.zip

"Operation: Achtliebe", released December 20th, 2004. http://www.wolfenstein3d.co.uk/achtliebe.zip

"Project: Wolfgeist", released February 2nd, 2005. http://www.users.globalnet.co.uk/~brlowe/wolfgeist.zip

"Abandon 2: Purgatory!", released March 23rd, 2005. http://www.users.globalnet.co.uk/~brlowe/Purgatory.zip

"Secrets of Offenbach", released July 28th, 2005. http://www.wolfenstein3d.co.uk/SoO1.zip

"Nazi Operation DEMO", released August 5th, 2005. http://www.wolfenstein3d.co.uk/NazOpeDem.zip

"Nazi Operation", released January 1st, 2006. http://www.brlowe.co.uk/No.zip

OTHER MODS WITH MY PARTICIPATION

"Gex' Spear Levels Contest", released September 25th, 2005. http://www.wolfenstein3d.co.uk/GexSpear0924.zip


All of them and about 700 other cool mods and TC's available on the Wolfenstein 3D 
Dome. http://www.wolfenstein3d.co.uk/

CREDITS

ID Software & MapEdit Team - Utility
Chris Chokan - Coding
Gary Ragland & BJ Rowan - Inspiration
Dean Horton - Beta testing, lots of backup
Ringman - Cool New Walls
Brian Lowe - Distribution, backup
DieHard Wolfers Community - Help, backup