Coming of the Storm is probably the best Wolfenstein 3D addon that I've played, in 
terms of difficulty. You'll be saving your games constantly!

Be sure to read the game manual, particularly the part about the weapons.  This game 
has eight weapons, with different ammo for most. There are seven floors saved in 
the annotated version, four of which are at the start of a floor, and three floors 
which are in progress, although one of those three can be immediately completed at 
less than 100% Kill/ Secrets/ Treasure. You'll want to play all 19 levels, but the 
saved games, (floor 9 and floors 14-19), will be valuable in practicing those levels. 
The game gets progressively harder with each level. All saved games are at the 'I 
Am Death Incarnate' Level.

Here are some notes that I think you will find helpful:

1) On floor 1, don't bother looking in the forest for secrets. You also won't be 
able to retrieve a shotgun from any of the snipers.

2) I found no use whatsoever for the flamethrower. You may have more success if you 
chose to use it. 

3) When you find a backpack, it will increase the ammo for the weapon that YOU ARE 
CURRENTLY USING, so if you have full or near full bullets, grab extra rockets for 
the rocket launcher. You're going to need them against the cyborgs, bosses, and the 
priests on floor 16, in particular. Don't waste rockets on any human or regular mutant 
soldiers. The aforementioned floor 16 will cost you a lot of rockets. If you're lucky, 
you can kill a cyborg with one rocket, but it usually takes two. Don't fire a rocket 
in a tight spot, either, or it will explode and blow YOU up!

4) The weapon I used most was the Gewehr 43 semiautomatic shotgun, (weapon 4). It's 
very accurate, (one shot can take out a mutant), and it uses the same ammo as the 
Sturmgewehr 44 machine gun, (weapon 5). The gatling gun, which is weapon 4 in most 
Wolfenstein 3D games, is weapon 6 in this one. 

5) Avoid the ghosts! You can disintigrate them with one shotgun blast, but they will 
return a short while later. They can kill you, but you get no points for hitting 
them, so stay away from them, as much as possible. There are three floors where you 
will encounter a lot of ghosts, two of which are floors 16 and 19. 

Good Luck, B.J.!!

