THE THIRTEENTH FLOOR

An add-on for Wolfenstein 3-D

Requires Wolf 1.4 Full 6-Episode Version



INSTALLING:

  First, create a new directory and copy all files from your Wolf3D directory
into it.  Then delete GAMEMAPS.WL6 and MAPHEAD.WL6, and copy all TFL files
(GAMEMAPS.TFL, MAPHEAD.TFL, DEMO1.TFL, DEMO2.TFL, and DEMO3.TFL) into the new
directory.  Finally, change all the extensions of the copied filed to WL6.

THE DEMOS:

  I've created three demos for The Thirteenth Floor using Wolf3D's "record
demo" feature.  However, I don't know if they can be played back without
altering and recompiling the source code.  If you can find a way to play them
back, they're worth a look!

INFO:

  The Thirteenth Floor has six levels, all in Episode One, and follows the
original Episode One storyline.  All other levels are just 64x64 gray stone
rooms with the player starting out in the center.  On E1 L4, I have put a
"trick area" that takes advantage of bugs in Wolf3D to have effects like walls
that can be walked through, doors that have penetrable sides, and a few other
things.  One note: there are TONS of other tricks that I did not use, like
objects that can be walked through, doors that cause your game to crash, red-
hot walls, force-fields, wormholes (enter the blue jail area, then go north
to the purple tunnel, keep going north all of the time, and suddenly find
yourself back in the blue jail area, for example), doors that cause gray stone
walls to appear all over the level, doors that cause your game to go beserk,
and tons of other things.  While all of the things above are things that I
know how to do, I did not have room to put them in that one level.  (I didn't
put them everywhere throughout the add-on because this is not a
"trick add-on", that place in the level was just one place where I used tricks
for fun.)  This is the first trick you'll encounter: When you enter the area,
you'll find yourself in a blue stone corridor.  Shortly after you round the
first corner and start firing at mutants, your weapon will switch to your
machine gun and you'll temporarily be unable to switch to any other weapon.
You'll find several other tricks, and one of the sections looks pretty
interesting if you look at the level map.  Here's a hint for the area: When
you find an elevator tile, push the tile in the one direction it can be
pushed.  You will still not be able to use it.  After this, do the next
section and do not quit and resume the game until you have exited the level.
In the final corridor (which has walls that look pretty interesting,) you'll
see the elevator door.  Open the elevator door and zoom through.  Hey!  It's
just the second half of the corridor!  Where's the switch?  How do you get
out?  Keep zooming forward.  Surprise!  Hehe!

  Also, E1 L5 is the boss level, where you fight Hans Grosse.  That level is
the largest and hardest of the levels, and it also has officers as well as
guards, dogs, and SS.

  Another thing: E1 L1 is the level where you enter the secret level.  And
all of you Wolf3D experts should know why I couldn't make it a different
level.  Not without altering and recompiling the source code anyway, which I
didn't know how to do when I started the add-on, and also this add-on is my
first and last add-on without any EXE changes (except maybe for a small
"trick" add-on,) because I now know how to compile the source code, and have
figured out tons of things.

BUGS:

  On E1 L10, if you enter the level, save your game, and die, you may
experience a bug in Wolf3D where when the screen dissolves out for a restart
of the level, the screen size is reduced and there is a flickering red border
out to the original size.  I encountered this when I playtested the level.
While levels that I make tend not to have this bug (maybe because I generally
use relatively small numbers of floor codes,) it seems that with E1 L10, there
is always a chance that this will occur.  If you encounter this bug, increase
the screen size back to the original size.

  One other thing: at one time when I was playing E1 L4, fairly early on in
the level, the game suddenly started to act as if I was holding the "use" key
down.  And no, I wasn't.  After I pressed and released the "use" key to clear
it, everything was normal.  No, this was not a trick that I used (or intended
to use, anyway.)

MY NEXT ADD-ON:

  I'm planning that my next add-on will have many source code changes and
many futuristic things like computers in it.  Here are some of the things I'm
planning to have in it:

  * Two additional keys with status bar icons (why didn't Apogee use locked
door types 3 and 4?)
  * New help screens and end text (yes, the "Read This!" option re-enabled)
  * Changed music order (and some levels with no music, for added suspense)
  * Changed ceiling colors
  * Ambient sounds played throughout every level
  * Objects that make sounds
  * New graphics
  * New sounds
  * New enemies
  * New bosses
  * Four new creatures, including two friendly creatures
  * Improved AI
  * New items
  * New weapons
  * Seperate ammo caches for every weapon
  * Every weapon seperate (just because you have the chaingun doesn't mean
that you have the machine gun!)
  * Animated wall textures and objects
  * Computers that can be used to gain access to secret areas
  * And many more things




  Have fun!  You can e-mail me at barichm0@netscape.net.