IMPRISONED version 0.3 prerelease
TC BY REDWOLF GAMES

Version History:
0.1- Early Stages of GFX, VGAGRAPH, GAMEMAPS
0.2- Maps (E1M1-3 + secret), GFX(several), early code completed
0.3- Coding compiled and prerelease version to come (E1M4 unmapped)

Story:

Jan 15, 1948
You have been captured and taken to a Nazi POW camp. Now you must escape the camp 
at ALL costs. You call out to an officer in a sick wounded voice. He walks in to 
beat you down and keep you quiet but as he does you punch him in the stomach. He 
gasps for breath and screams aloud as you snap his neck. Footsteps approach from 
down the hallway. You decide it's now or never and grab the dead man's knife and 
gun. (Yes it's simple but what do you expect?)


Featuring:
20 New Levels by Redwolf
"1337" Source Code Hacking by Redwolf (if you don't understand you aren't a hacking 
type of person!)
Hilarious Exit Messages (Look for 'em all!)
BLACK Warning Screen
ILM code changed (you can figure it out.... HINT: The letters are in the title AND 
it's a monster in DooM!)
Gray/Red/Black Statbar
Statbar and Face Carried Over From OSII by ME!
New Graphics
Other Special Fun Stuff

My Magical Editors:
Mapedit (Oh yes, thank you God for this tool!)
Wolfedit (Absolutely necessary)
Borland Compiler (Forgot the version but still... ahh yes!)
Floedit (Only to mod the menu/startup gfx or insert sprites too friggin big for Wolfedit 
to save)
XWE (Taking images from Duke3d/Doom/Blood)
Giffy (.BMP to .GIF and back, ESSENTIAL for Wolfedit and Floedit to work together 
quickly and easily!)
Windows Wordpad (Compilation of IMPRISONED readme)

Acknowledgements:
MCS- Master code hacker who wrote some of the community's best source code tutes...

Brian Lowe- Poster of my amazing TC's to the page you got Imprisoned from.
Wolf3d Dome Source Code Tutes- These little things helped me immensely.
Waterdog- He left Sniper Studios, forcing much change, and as bad karma type punishment 
for his becoming burnt out on Wolf3d, HIS EMAIL CRASHED! (mwahahahaha cruel ironic 
retribution is mine!)
You- But of course. You play my TC of questionable quality and hopefully enjoy it. 
Thanks much one and all!
Fontfreak.com and other font pages- Here I got all those SWEET fonts I so enjoy using 
on all my TC's.
