KURLANDFRONT
A Wolfenstein 3D SDL Total Conversion
by Tristan ronwolf1705

Welcome to the Kurlandfront!       

"One only honours what one conquers or defends."- Reichsminister Dr. Joseph Goebbels, 1935	
1942: The Second World War has taken a turn for the worst.	
Hitler’s Third Reich has conquered all of Europe, from the	
Atlantic coastlines of France all the way to Moscow.	
You are B.J. Blaskowitz, British 1st Airborne Infantry	Division. 
You are selected by His Majesty’s Government to	undertake a special mission behind enemy lines.	
You are to infiltrate a Nazi secret weapons factory in 	
Kurland, situated in Reichskommissariat Ostland on the shores of the Southern Baltic. 
Here you will encounter	many foes, including soldiers of the Schutzstaffel (SS),	
Sicherheitsdienst (SD) and Wehrmacht (German Army).	
All these men are dedicated to one single objective --	
protecting the secret weapons of their Führer from	
falling into enemy hands! Also, you will ultimately	
locate and have to assassinate Trans and Hans Grösse,	
the evil twins overseeing the secret weapons project.	

--------------	
Thank you for downloading Kurlandfront, a Wolfenstein 3D TC.	
It is important that you refrain from contacting either 	
Apogee Software or id Software concerning this modification. 	
They will not provide you with any support.	
Kurlandfront is a Wolfenstein 3D Total Conversion add-on	
featuring 15 new levels, a new SDL EXE file with many code	
changes and tons of new 128x128 pixel images not seen in	
other Wolfenstein 3D add-ons. 	
We hope you enjoy playing Kurlandfront as much as we have	
enjoyed making it. Please distribute this game as much as you
can - and if you are a fellow Wolf3D modder, please feel free	
to use its resources for your own mods.																	Ronwolf1705 & Tristan, 2018


 Installing Kurlandfront	
Setting up Kurlandfront is simple. Just unzip the package 	
into a new directory; no original game files are required. 	
You can even unzip Kurlandfront into your WOLF3D directory; 	
none of your original game files will be overwritten. 	
To play Kurlandfront, run the file KURLANDFRONT.EXE. 	
You can run this game from Windows, as we have used the	
Wolf4SDL environment by Ripper for your gaming pleasure.	
Select "New Game" from the main menu, choose your preferred 	
difficulty level from the following screen, and your mission 	
begins! 

Credits and Thanks	
Tristan has spent hours and hours of editing WW2 era posters, 	
128x128 sprites and wall tiles to make this add-on interesting.	
However, to say that everything was made from scratch would 	
be untruthful. Many graphics were based upon work by others.	
We are very grateful for their endeavours, as they helped us 	
shape the 128x128 Kurlandfront world as it is today.	
Since it is paramount to give credit where it is due, we would 	
like to do so here. We hope the following list is complete.	
If we have forgotten anyone, thanks to you too! ;-)	
- Original Wolf3D/RTCW/DooM GFX/sounds - iD Software	
- Original Duke3D/Shadow Warrior GFX - 3D Realms	
- Original Return to Danger GFX/sounds - FormGen Corp.	
- Project Totengraeber GFX/sounds - B.J. Rowan	
- Mac guard base - LkMax	
- Mac weapons base - LkMax	
- Mac SS/Officer base - Ringman	
- Mac Officer recoloring - doomjedi	
- Snowy plants, trees etc. - Reactor	
- Various GFX - Laz Rojas	
- Doom chaingun sprite edit - UnTrustable

  Kurlandfront - the story so far...       
"Obstacles do not exist to be surrendered to, but only to be broken." 
- Adolf Hitler, “Mein Kampf”, 1923

Magnitogorsk, Eastern Ural Mountains, 1942AD, December 1st
As the glittering snow settled on the small window of the former chapel 
of the Holy Trinity, Joseph Stalin lit his pipe and puffed while pouring 
over the world map on his desk.While listening to the ticking of the pendulum 
behind him, he stared at the portrait of Lenin on the wall with a grim face.
How destiny had forsaken him. He had believed that the 1939 non-aggression pact 

with the German Reich would safeguard the future of his empire; after the German 

Reich's invasion of Poland in September 1939 Russia had joined to reap the spoils.

Poland was effectively annexed by both countries. This was the start for a chain 
reaction of fateful events.The French-British declaration of war on the German 
Reich was countered every step of the way. Norway, Denmark, Belgium, the 
Netherlands and, finally, France fell to their knees for the Germans. On the 
1st of June 1940, the German Wehrmacht captures more than 337,000 soldiers of 
the Britsh Expeditionary Force, effectively decapacitating Britain on the European 

continent indefinitely. The sphere of control of the German Reich now stretched 

from Brest in France to Bialystok in the former Polish territories - fate, it 
seemed, was on the German side.After Roosevelt's defeat in the presidential 
election late November 1940 by Nazi sympathizer Charles Lindbergh, the United 
States of America increased its policy of neutrality. The autumn of 1940 
saw the final shipment of material & goods to the United Kingdom, thereby 
forcing the British government tocarry on the war on her own strength.

Then, in June 1941 the German Reich invaded the Soviet Union, initiating
the war on the Eastern Front. Stalin was taken by surprise as he heard the news. 

Since then, everything had happened with dizzying speed. In spite of Britain's mutual    
assistance treaty with Russia, the reality was that the Soviets were left to fend 
for 
themselves. The German tactics were devastatingly effective against a Russian military 
that lacked good tactics, equipment and will for fighting against the combat-hardened 

German enemy. In many respects Barbarossa was a stunning success as the Germans advanced 

hundreds of miles in just a few weeks and killed or captured several million Soviet 
troops. 
Death-defying in attack, advancing at an unconquerable rate of progress, German infantry, 

armored detachments, air force and units of the navy were soon dictating the course 
of events. 
As the leaves fell from the trees in September 1941, the Germans had seized an area 
containing 
60 percent of the USSR’s coal, iron ore, aluminum, and armaments. Within a few days, 
it achieved 
the spectacular encirclement of 685,000 Soviet troops near the towns of Bryansk and 
Vyazma, 
about 100 miles west of Moscow. On the 1st of October 1941, the Soviet capital of Moscow came 
within reach of German artillery. The early winter frost draped a white blanket over 
the blood 
of millions of Russian soldiers. Thoroughly alarmed, the Stalin regime evacuated 
the government 
behind the Urals as the swastika flag waves over a destroyed Kremlin. Meanwhile Lenin's 
tomb 
posed a last stand of Russian defence. Refusing to initiate peace talks, Stalin ordered 
all 
his last 18 divisions from Siberia to withdraw to behind the Eastern Ural Mountains, 
thus 
effectively abandoning the rest of Russia to the Germans. Finally, a bled-out Moscow surrendered 
on the 18th of October 1941; the German Reich now held territories spanning over 
four thousand miles 
in its iron fist. Hitler's Lebensraum doctrine seemed victorious.

As the German Führer and the Italian Duce met in the bombed-out ruins of Moscow to 
discuss 
the finalization of the Eastern Campaign, British PM Churchill had declared to fight 
on. 
Addressing the Greater German Reichstag in Berlin, the Führer informed his leaders 
that the 
Reich Government needed time to launch a thorough and exhaustive offensive the coming 
spring. 
With the vastness of eastern Russia and its demolished infrastructure making transport 
of 
army material a hazardous exercise, the German war machine had finally come to a 
grinding halt. 
Nevertheless the Führer seemed optimistic about  the impending British-Soviet defeat 
- 
he said he had all reason to be. New secret “Wunderwaffe” weapons manufactured in Kurland 

would see to that.A thumping knock on the stainless steel door kicked Joseph Stalin out of 
his midnight ponderings. "Comrade Stalin, the British assassin is here to see you." 

"Very well Beria, send him in." As he stood up, Stalin looked into the grey-flecked 
eyes of 
Captain Wilhelm Johann "B.J."  Blaskowitz, standing at attention as the door was 
closed and 
locked behind him. "I apologize for keeping you waiting", Stalin grinned sardonically 
as he 
chewed on his pipe stem. "So, Mr. Churchill sends you to help me drive the Germans 
back to 
the Atlantic, yes?" Blaskowitz smiled back at Stalin and replied in the same tone. 

"The Prime Minister sends his regards, General Secretary Stalin. Could we get to 
the point? 
Time's a luxury you lack, I'd say." Watching closely into the eyes of Blaskowitz, 

Stalin noticed not the slightest emotion. After 2 seconds watching each other, both 
men 
knew without words that they could trust each other."I understand that you were born in 
East Prussia to a German father and a Russian mother," Stalin pondered B.J. nodded, 

clasping his British 1st Airborne Infantry Division cap.

Stalin, sipping his glass of Georgian Kindzmarauli wine, opened a manila document 
folder 
on his desk while pointing B.J. to a chair close by. As Blaskowitz sat dow, Stalin 
started 
the briefing. "Well now, my British-German friend, the strategical key to getting the 

Germans to back down from my territories lies in Kurland, what the Germans now call 

Reichskommissariat Ostland. Here a secret weapons programme is run by Reich Commissar 

Hans Grösse and his brother Trans to produce heavy water bombs with the power to 
destroy 
the Ural Mountains."Stalin paused and looked at his unusual guest, satisfyingly noticing 
a starting unease in B.J. Blaskowitz's face. "Does the name Hans Grösse mean anything 
to you, 
young friend?" Clenching his fist and gritting his teeth, B.J. muttered "I have had 
dealings 
with mr. Grösse in the past when I was being incarcerated in Festung Wolfenstein 
before the war".
"Well", Stalin smiled, "then I can cut to the chase. The loss of the Kurland programme 
could push 
the Reich over the edge into full military retreat. Reversely, failure could mean 
a swift end to 
the war in favour of the Reich, as we can't hold out here forever. Time is of the 
essence and only 
you can do it." Standing up, B.J. saluted, "Well sir, I will see you in Moscow after 
my successful 
completion of the mission." Grinning, Stalin nodded. “If you succeed, my young friend. 

If you succeed.”

Mitau, Reichskommissariat Ostland, 1942AD, December 2nd, 0200hrs
As B.J. scrambled up from the shores of the Southern Baltic, the parachute with his 
gear 
was missing. All he had was the knife and pistol on his person. In the distance, 
behind 
the snowy white plains ahead, B.J. heard muffled screams. Officers barking orders, 
weapons 
being loaded and cocked, dogs barking; he had heard it all before. Gritting his teeth, 
he 
jammed a clip in his trusted Luger P08 9mm and growled under his breath: 
"Let's root out this Grösse family for good!"

  Level descriptions      
"It is blood which moves the wheels of history, every step of the way. " 
- Duce Benito Mussolini, 1914

Kurlandfront’s 15 levels, instead of being arranged in playable episodes as in the 
original 
Wolfenstein 3D, are laid out as one continuous seamlessly progressing mission, 
consisting of several groups or "units" with a common theme.

Levels 1 - 5: Mitau Castle & surroundings
After being dropped from a Soviet fighter near the shore, your mission begins as 
you pass 
through an old castle complex approximately 10 kilometers off the heavy water factory. 

This system of tunnels and old mines is lightly guarded and is mainly used for storage 
of weaponry. 
As you pass through these saltmines, you will find the entrance to the tunnel system 
that leads 
you to the SS barracks at the middle of the mountain.	

Levels 6 - 10: SS Baracks “Ostland”, Kauen
A housing complex for the SS guard detachment consisting of a barracks, vehicle maintenance 
and 
storage and a staff headquarters building, all grouped around a central parade field 
used for 
training and inspection of guards. Grit your teeth and check your gear, because the 
SS will 
show you exactly what their blood oath and a machinegun can make them do! From here 
on out 
it's on to the factory. That is - if you can get pastSS-Hauptsturmführer Trans Grösse!

Levels 11 - 15: Schwerwasserfabrik Wartheblut, Libau
Finally you have reached the goal of your mission: Surrounded by a small complex 
of staff 
and security buildings, this is the first plant in the world to mass-produce heavy 
water. 
The heated environment of the factory will make you sweat - not to mention hordes 
of SS and 
Gestapo ready to hunt you down like the dog they take you for! Be advised that Reichskommissar 

Hans Grösse has been entrusted by the Führer to oversee security of the plant - you'll 
be in 
for a heartwearming tete-a-tete with this gentleman!

 Playing Kurlandfront	
Being a Wolfenstein 3D Total Conversion, Kurlandfront is based upon the Wolf3D engine. 

As such, everything works the same as playing Wolfenstein 3D would. 
You can customize your controls or the size of the screen in the Main Menu.
Kurland’s enhancements to your playing experience are:
Health: The amount of damage you can take. The maximum is 100.
As you are shot or injured, this number decreases. If the number reaches 0, you die. 

Picking up health packs and food increases your health.		
Ammo and weaponry: You have 5 weapons at your disposal with a maximum of 200 bullets. 
Fire in the hole!

1: SS Knife (”Ehrendolch”)
The center of this wide and spear-pointed and 33 cm long blade has a very pronounced 
rib. 
This weapon is good for close quarters combat and will not alarm any enemies when 
you use it. 
Stealth mode activated!

2: Luger Pistol Model 1908 (P08) Parabellum	
This toggle-locked recoil-operated semi-automatic pistol will assist you in killing 
from semi-close 
and distant range.	

3: MP-40 “Schmeisser” Maschinenpistole
This submachine gun chambered for the 9×19mm Parabellum	cartridge has a relatively low rate of fire, 
enabling you to mow down multiple enemies at once. A good friend to have.	

4: Maschinenkarabiner 42(H) chaingun	
This machine carbine chaingun is basically a soldier’s wet dream - killing adversaries 
never was 
so easy. The only real downside to this weapon is it’s appetite for bullets - you will need more 
ammunition when using this baby, and quick too!	

5: Raketenpanzerbuchse 54 “Panzerschreck” rocket launcher
This 88 mm calibre anti-tank rocket launcher is a one-shot lightweight infantry anti-tank 
weapon 
firing a rocket. Feel like blowing up adversaries? Now’s your chance.

  Playing Kurlandfront      
"Heroes never die; the soil, by drinking their blood, borns them again." 
- Ioannis Metaxas, 1927	

Movement
In Kurlandfront you can run in with guns blazing, use stealth, or a combination of 
the two. 
Sprint for a quick burst of speed, lean around corners to get the lay of the land, 
walk to 
move silently, and kick to quickly open doors. To successfully complete your missions, 

you have to employ stealth tactics. Going into every situation with more guns than brains will 
leave you dead on the floor (and out of ammo, too!). Some situations require waiting 
for the right 
moment to sneak up behind an enemy or to sneak past unobserved. Some missions are entirely dependent 

on not being spotted. Taking cover will help you stay alive. Hide behind objects 
and walls and listen 
for the enemy to reload their weapon or move away. When they do, they are vulnerable.


The default control and movement keys are:
Arrow-keys: Movement (Up, Left, Right, Down)	
Left CTRL: Attack / fire weapon
Spacebar: Use / open doors	
Left Shift: Sprinting
Esc: Exit / return to Main Menu	

Picking up Items
Weapons, ammo, treasure, and many other items can be found along the way.
Pick them up by walking on them. If you can’t pick up the item, you’re either 
unable to use it or don’t need 	it (such as a health pack when you’re at 100%).	
Doors	
Most doors can be opened quickly by pressing the Activate key (Space). 
Some require either a golden or a silver key to open. 
You need to find the key in order to open it. 

The Opposition	

You will face fierce resistance in your attempt to complete your mission objective. 
Watch their tactics to 	learn how to anticipate their actions.	
Fallschirmjäger
These German paratroopers are trained in large-scale airborne operations and have 
come 
to be known as the 	"grey devils" by the Allied forces they fight against. 
Famous for their willingness to give every effort unwaveringly even in the grimmest of situations, 
they	are the most common enemies you will face.	

Waffen-SS (Schutzstaffel)
The Reich’s elite force, standing tall and with a very	pronounced Aryan arrogance, 
these highly trained and dedicated National Socialists will teach you how to dance - 
with their MP-40’s calling the tune!

SturmAbteilung (SA)
Originaly the National Socialist Party’s paramilitary wing, these friendly fellows 
are very quick on their 	
feet - they shoot twice as fast as their Fallschirm counterparts. Steer well clear 
of these Huns!	

Sicherheitsdienst Offiziere (SD Officers)
Fast, quick, lean and mean - these aristocrat fiends are tough as nails and shoot to kill. Achtung!

  Kurlandfrunt - Developers’ notes      
"The war waged today by the German Reich is a war of an immense reform."
- Reichsminister Dr. Alfred Rosenberg, 1941	

Authors MAY use this modification as a basis for other 	publically available, not-for-profit work, provided they
inform the authors of any modifications which are made and give the authors credit 
where it is due.	
Authors MAY use any of the resources in Kurlandfront (graphics, sounds, etc.) in 
their own projects without the 
express permission of the authors. Have fun modding!	You MAY distribute this Wolfenstein modification in any
electronic format as long as this description file remains intact and unmodified, 
and is retained along with all 
of the 	files.	No profit was or is to be made from this Wolfenstein 3-D modification. 
This modification was made under the terms of the ID Software LIMITED USE SOFTWARE 
LICENSE AGREEMENT.	
Wolfenstein 3D, Spear of Destiny and related items are copyrighted since 1992 byID 
Software, Inc. 
All other noted products are property of their respective owners. 
Please visit ID software at: https://www.idsoftware.com. 

 Shout-out	
We’d like to express our thanks to the following people in the	
Wolfenstein 3D modding community - in active service, retired	or - unfortunately, in some cases 
- lost to the Good Lord. We remember you and think of you - you were influential in	
making possible this add-on, and therefore we are grateful.	

Adam Biser
Andy_Nonymous
AReyeP
Arielus
AlumiuN
Barry Christian
Brian Lowe
Brian Rowan
Brothertank
Chris Chokan
Codetech84
DarkOne
doomjedi
Dugtrio17
Florian Stöhr
Gary Ragland
Harry Sr.
Ian Franken
John Bucksnort
Kenny Riley
Majik Monkee
Martin Krysiak
MCS Amsterdam(LaChouffe!!!)
Paal Olstad
Richter Belmont
Ripper
TheTalentedMrLeo
Thomas Weiling
Tricob
WLHack
Wolf Skevos Jones
Zach Higgins	

And ofcourse we are eternally indebted to ID Software.	
Originally released on May 5, 1992, Wolfenstein 3D is and has	
been widely regarded as having helped popularize the 	
first-person shooter genre and establishing the standard of 	
fast-paced action and technical prowess. Now, 26 years later,	
we dedicate this Total Conversion to you - thanks a lot!	
Finally, last but not least, we’d like to thank our families.	
Keeping up with us during the time-consuming task of making	
Kurlandfront for you to enjoy must’ve been quite a task.	
Keep on Wolfing and remember - this is about fun, NOT about	
endorsing or condoning Nazism. Shoot ‘em down!	

Thanks for playing! Tristan & ronwolf1705, the Netherlands, July 2018