
The Tower v1.20.


Text file accompanying The Tower, a Wolfenstein adventure.


Thank you for wanting to play The Tower.

The Tower is compiled for Spear of Destiny, using the Wolf3D/Spear source code released 
by Id Software.

The Tower also uses much of the resources of the original game, such as graphics, 
sounds and music.
To protect the copyright of the owner of the original game, the audiohed file is 
not included in the zip.
You must own a registered version of Spear of Destiny to supply this file.

There are also several new graphics in The Tower, including the outdoor areas.

There is a new audiot file.
All songs are original Wolfenstein songs, but I have included some songs from Wolf3D 
that are not originally found in Spear.
I edited the audiot without having to edit the audiohed.
I guarantee that the audiohed with the date 5th of January 1993 works with my version 
of the audiot,
other original Spear audiohed files may also work.
If my version of the audiot does not work use an original Spear audiot file with 
a corresponding audiohed file.
Only the order of songs will be changed.


How to install and run The Tower.
Create a new directory called Tower.
Unzip TOWER.ZIP in the Tower directory.
Copy the audiohed file from your original Spear of Destiny directory to the new Tower 
directory.
Start TOWER.EXE

All levels are tested on "Death Incarnate" starting with just a knife,
and getting 100% in all three bonus categories.

The story of The Tower is displayed during the intro loop.
Each of the 12 screens has about one minute reading time.
Hitting a key will take you to the menu screen.

General hints.
The Tower combines hard action and challenging puzzles.
Know that not shooting an enemy immediately may be necessary to open doors.
Sometimes letting the door close before opening fire is necessary to prevent being 
heard by enemies in nearby areas.
Several items have different functions under different conditions.
Picking up items in the right order may sometimes be necessary to get through the 
levels
Remember to save often and in different slots. Always leave a save at the beginning 
of the level you are currently on.

There are some secret levels.
The last one of these is a complete castle itself, with several floors of its own.

You move up and down through these floors using elevators.
When you get down to a floor you have been to previously you will find it in the 
state you left it.
Each floor in this secret level has its own ceiling color and wall textures.

See also The Tower Hint Manual, but be aware that looking at it may spoil the challenge 
of playing The Tower.
Have someone else looking at the Hint Manual to give you vague hints without spoiling 
the gameplay.

A notice to add-on makers.
Some features found in two of the Tower's levels are not general features.
They are hard coded especially for these levels.
Making an add-on using The Tower as a basis you will experience strange and unpredictable 
things in these two levels.
If you want to make add-ons to The Tower please contact me first.


The Tower is freeware and may only be distributed free of charge.
All 9 files (including this text file) must be included, and no other.

The author of The Tower kindly requests people not to modify The Tower nor use part 
of it in other add-ons.



Paal Olstad.


p-olstad (at) online.no
