REVIVAL OF MEMORIES (by Brian E. Lowe - coding by MCS Amsterdam)


INTRODUCTION

The story behind Revival of Memories is a well-documented one, and in a matter of 
speaking historically correct. Consider the game a full-scale epic, with slight hints 
from Episode 3 of the original Wolfenstein, the theme of which was definitely the 
most compelling of all available scenarios.


THE STORY

Germany, November 1944. As the end of the war appears imminent, an increasingly isolated 
and insane Hitler, tired of his daily attempts to pursue his hopeless war, will enjoy 
a vacation at the Wewelsburg Castle, and with him a few other Reich officials.

The security will be at its highest level, but with your resume full of operations 
behind enemy lines proves you to be the ideal man for the task the secret service 
has in mind: Infiltrate the Wewelsburg and assassinate the Fuhrer, along with the 
other officials. 

You will enter via a sewer system, leading to a SS barracks nearby the salt mines. 
These salt mines have tunnels leading to the mountain top where the Wewelsburg is. 
The last thing they'd need was B.J. Blazkowicz to come sniffing around.


MORE INFORMATION

There are 39 seamless levels in this game, including 2 secret levels. The secret 
levels are accessed from secret elevators on levels 16 and 25. All levels are new 
apart from level 15 which is a modified version of a WolfBel level.  

Level 13 was not made by me, but was donated by a mapper who wishes to remain anonymous. 
Levels 24 and 25 were donated by Bill Hough (previously a WolfBel3 contributor) though 
I have since modified them. I made all the other levels.

Many of the graphics and sounds have been changed but hopefully they still retain 
the feel of the original Wolf 3D game.

Most of the normal guards have been changed and come from elsewhere though the mutants 
and blue SS from the original Wolf 3D have been retained.

All of the bosses from the original Wolf 3D can be found in this game too, including 
the brothers of Hans Grosse. Indeed, you will also find in a later level that Schabbs 
has an indentical twin brother! The 'Hitler Ghost' too makes occasional appearances.


New coding features include exploding oil drums, switch operated doors, animated 
objects, a shotgun with its own ammo, a rocket launcher and directional sprites.



HINTS

Most levels have somewhere near the maximum permitted number of guards on the highest 
difficulty level so they can be quite challenging at times. However, all levels are 
beatable.

Some levels have a silver door that requires a switch to be operated to open it. 
A few levels need pushwalls opened to complete them, though the pushwalls are usually 
quite obvious (like a portrait).
  
 
MORE HINTS

Picking up a weapon will add only that weapon, unlike in the original Wolf 3D where 
lower weapons are added too. 

If you are low on one particular type of ammo, there could be another weapon you 
can use. Remember that the shotgun and rocket launcher use different ammo.
 
If you run out of one type of ammo then the knife will be displayed. Once the ammo 
is replenished, you will need to select the weapon again to use it.


DEDICATED TO 

Kathy


SPECIAL THANKS

MCS Amsterdam - coding
Wolf Skevos-Jones - 'Heer' guards
id software - original game


CONTACTS

You can contact me by email at brian@brlowe.globalnet.co.uk

You can also visit my website - The Wolfenstein 3D Dome at http://www.wolfenstein3d.co.uk/ 
 

id software is at http://www.idsoftware.com/


Brian E. Lowe
12/16/2005
