Wolfenstein:Auferstehung by Will Jeffries

Storyline
The date is September 2,1955, 10 years after World War 2 officially ended and B.J. Blazcowickz is having a reunion with his fellow soldiers at the old military base when all of a sudden amidst the noise he hear's the phone ring "Oh dammit...not again" He thinks.Slowly he reaches for the black phone and picks it up.The voice from the other end says "Hello Mr Blazkowickz,Do you remeber me?"B.J. replys "Who the hell is this?WHO ARE YOU?"The room goes silent quickly.The man on the other end says quietly "You should remember me Mr Blazkowickz.I'm insulted.If you really must know all I can say is return to Castle Wolfenstein.If you can make it past my mutants and men." "Huh,like i'm that stupid,What do you think I am,a moron?"B.J retorts quickly. "Nein!You should come because I have your wife here.Yes I was thoughtful enough to fly out myself to get her.If you don't come well I can just say she will make a very good guinia pig"The raspy voice said.B.J suddenly remebers who it is."SCHABBS IF YOU PUT ONE HAND ON HER I'LL KILL YOU!"B.J. Screams into the phone.Next there is no reply and the other end hangs up the phone.B.J rushes to his tackle box,grabs his pistol and heads out for the airport as the other wonder whats going on.What seemed like forever on the flight over he finally makes his way over the the death trap known as Castle Wolfenstein.The huge nightmare looms above him as he hears gunshots from inside.He throws the doors open and draws his gun in the proscess.In front of him are two Nazi gaurds laying dead in a pool of there own thick red blood and standing above them is a horrible mutated creature.B.J. Quickly blasted his gun at the creature and in a spray of blood it was dead before it hit the concrete.The gaurd on the ground muttered "Heil Niestzch....."Slowly he walked up to one of the dead gaurds.Suddenly he noticed a small ID tag on the gaurds uniform,it included the man's name,a swastika and under that written in english and german were the words 
"New Nazi Alliance"....it appeared that the mutant and the Nazi's were fighting,strange B.J. remembered in Castle Hollehammer the Nazis and mutants worked together...this wasn't good....



NEWSFLASH: "Schultz" is working on a add-on called Bate's Motel and the secret level in here is the first level from it.

If you beat Auferstehung read Endgame.txt and look at the boss you beat


Thanks to:
id Software (Who would have freakin thought?)
Christian "My Shadow" Petersen (My Former Beta Tester)
Sarah "The Schultz:" Schultz (Look for her 'n' mine mod "Bate's Motel" soon)
Pepsi (staying up til 3:00 in the morning would not have been possible without you guys)
Mr.Lowe (Thanx for posting the news on your kick ass site and putting up with me)
B.J. Rowan (Totengraeber people!Totengraeber!)
The Tekkoudan Team (Tekkoudan is the best Wolf related thing out there,*GASP* It may even be better than you!)

What I used to make dis here thing:
Paint Shop Pro 3 (It's better for Wolfenstein editing.,trust me people....or I could be a cheap bastard.Either one.)
FloEdit (I used this the most)
Wolfedit (Damn you .gif files!!!DAMN YOU!!)
Pepsi (See above)

The pistol that appears in Wolfenstein:Auferstehung was not made by me,you can thank the Tekkoudan team for that sweet lookin' gun.


Send all comments to willmc@home.com and put "Auferstehung" in the subject





