Well, here it is, after a couple of weeks of extracting and inserting, the
complete DOOM patch for the registered version of Wolfenstein 3-D.

You should have unzipped the following files from the archive:

        FILE_ID.DIZ   <----The usual thing.
        DOOMSTEN.TXT  <----This file.
        DOOMIN.BAT    \____
        DOOMOUT.BAT   /    The install and uninstall files.
        VSWAP.DMS     <----The new DOOM Graphics and Sounds.
        DATA001.EXE   \
        DATA003.EXE    \
        D_ULTIMA.MUS    >--Needed for the intro. 
        GENMIDI.OP2    /
        MUSPLAY.EXE   /
        PLAY.COM      <----If you want to see the intro, type this to play.

Just copy these files to a working Wolf 3-D registered directory and type
DOOMIN to install DOOMenstein and DOOMOUT to restore the original graphics.

And now for something completely legal:

        DOOM, DOOM II, AND WOLFENSTEIN 3-D ARE COPYRIGHTED BY ID SOFTWARE,
        AND PROBABLY OTHER PEOPLE.
        THIS PATCH HAS BEEN TESTED WITH REGISTERED COPIES OF VERSIONS 1.1
        AND 1.4 OF WOLFENSTEIN 3-D. THEY WORKED WITH NO PROBLEMS. ANY
        DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED BY THE USER INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
        TO: HARD DRIVE CRASHES OR ERASURE, CPU MELTDOWN, MONITOR BURN-IN,
        ANY TYPE OF COMPUTER MECHANICAL FAILURE, ANY FAILURE OR BREAKDOWN
        OF ANY PERIPHERAL ATTACHED TO ANY COMPUTER ANYWHERE, HAIRLOSS,
        SLEEPLESS NIGHTS, DIVORCE, MARRIAGE, CHILDBIRTH, FLOODS, TORNADOS,
        VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS, PLANETARY AXIAL SHIFT AND OTHER NATURAL
        DISASTERS ARE SOLELY THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE USER, OR
        CORRESPONDING FORCES OF NATURE AND/OR GOD(S). THE USER WILL NOT
        TRY TO CONTACT APOGEE OR ID SOFTWARE ABOUT ANY PROBLEMS THIS PATCH
        MIGHT INCUR ON HIS/HER COMPUTER SYSTEM. IF YOU HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
        IT AND YOU REALLY NEED HELP, YOU CAN CONTACT ME AT THE E-MAIL
        ADDRESSES BELOW. I WILL TRY TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM, BUT GIVE NO
        GUARANTEES AND ACCEPT NO RESPONSIBILTY FOR ANY OF THE ABOVE-MENTIONED
        PROBLEMS. IF YOU ARE UNSURE ABOUT THIS, THEN ERASE THE PATCH FILES
        AND CONTINUE PLAYING PLAIN OLD, BORING WOLF 3-D.
        YOU MAY COPY AND DISTRIBUTE THESE FILES AT WILL, AS LONG AS YOU
        KEEP THE ABOVE FILES INTACT. IF YOU WANT TO USE SOME OF MY GRAPHICS
        OR SOUNDS IN A PATCH OF YOUR OWN, PLEASE FEEL FREE, JUST GIVE ME
        CREDIT.

Well, you get the picture. Please read the following sections on
DOOMenstein:

         I. WHO
        II. WHY
       III. WHEN
        IV. WHAT
         V. The Problems

I. WHO
First of all, the credits:
        id software for creating both DOOM and Wolfenstein
        Apogee software for the distribution thing
        Blackadder for the door sounds & inspiration 
          (and intro... sorry for the wobbles it seems to have...)
        Loren G. Dobert for putting stuff through the blender
                I can be reached at (in order of preference):
                America Online: LorenD3207
                The same via internet: LorenD3207@aol.com
                Compuserve: 72332,507

II. WHY
I did this patch mainly to waste some time that I could have been putting
to better use. Also, I know some people, sorry wretches that they are, who
can't run DOOM due to a slow computer or small hard drive. They will
be able to experience some of DOOM with this patch, that can be run on any
machine capable of running Wolf3D.

III. WHEN
I started this about the third week of September, 1994. Then, when DOOM II
was released, I took a break to get familiar with that version and got
some new bad guys to put in the patch. Of course, I had to find an editor
capable of extracting DOOM II graphics (more on that later). I finished
on October 29, 1994 and started distribution.

IV. WHAT
The following programs were used in creating this patch:

Original Graphics & Sounds:        
        DOOM & DOOM II
                id Software
        Wolfenstein 3-D
                id Software
Graphics Insertion:        
        Wolfedit v2.1
                Bill Kirby
Sound Insertion:        
        Wolfsnd dated 8/3/92
                Doctor Data - Freeworld Freeware                
Graphics Extraction:        
        Dmgraph v1.0 Mar 5, 1994
                Bill Neisius
Sound Extraction:        
        Dmaud v1.0 Jan 1994
                Bill Neisius        
Sound & Graphics Extraction:        
        DoomEd v2.60beta & v3.0alpha
                Geoff Allan
Graphics Processing:        
        Adobe Photoshop v2.5
                Adobe Systems
        Graphics Workshop v1.0f
                Alchemy Mindworks
        Paintshop Pro v1.0
                Jasc, Inc.
        Improces v4.0
                John M. Wagner
Sound Processing:        
        Cool Edit v1.31
                David Johnston
        Soundblaster Voice Editor v2.15
                Creative Technology

I had to get DoomEd v3.0a off the net to extract the DOOM II graphics, as
no other editor would read them.

V. The Problems
When I started, I was just going to replace the Brown Guards with the 
former humans from DOOM. Of course, it grew from there. The most often
occurring problem was that the DOOM graphics were too big to fit into
Wolf3D. So, some scaling was needed, this caused some pixelation of the
graphics, so don't blame me, I had to make them fit. So, here's a rundown
of each set of graphics and sounds and what was done to them.

V1. Walls
The walls were the easiest. I just had to find DOOM textures that fit
properly and that would look good when the game was played with a standard
set of maps. I got all the walls to match, so the original set of maps
will work with no changes. Some of the patches I've seen didn't take this
into account, and the levels ended up looking funny because a corridor that
was supposed to be a single wall style with decorations was now a hodge-podge
of different walls. DOOMenstein's walls all match the originals, so that
won't happen. I had to tweak some of them to make them look good, as
Wolfedit doesn't always import graphics with the same colors. A pallette
matching problem, no doubt. Of course, most of the DOOM walls started out
128x128 pixels and Wolf's are 64x64. Scaling was needed, and some of the
wall textures didn't work out. Some were already 64x64, so I imported
those directly. They were the computer readouts and displays that make up
DOOM's COMPU wall textures. Most of the walls in DOOM are made of one or
more PANELS which are tiled and overlayed by the game to make a wall
texture. I used the panels by themselves and didn't try to recreate
specific walls from DOOM.
The only thing left to do after all the walls were in was to darken every
other wall style to give a shadowed effect. Wolf uses two wall graphics
for each style: one for north-south sides of the block and one for
east-west. One set was darker to give the player a sense of depth when
facing a corner. One wall would be lighter than it's 90 degree counterpart.
I had not planned on darkening the walls, but some narrow corridors of the
same wall style put together got confusing, as there was no distinction
between north-south and east-west walls. So I used Paintshop Pro the adjust
the brightness of opposing sets of walls 5-10% to get the necessary effect.
I used a lot of the computer styles mentioned earlier, and these walls are
unique on opposing sides, the north-south set is different from the east-west
set. I had enough textures to put in, so I used them.
A note here: most of the walls in Wolf are plain with various decoration
blocks which are sometimes used to mark secret doors. This is sometimes
reversed in DOOMenstein. A good example are the grey walls (they were
greenish, but wolfedit imported them as grey) with the gargoyle heads. All
the styles have a decoration, but the plain wall of this type takes the
place of a block that normally has a decoration. You have to watch for this
as most people are used to looking for a decoration to mark a secret door,
but now a plain wall marks the secret door.

V2. The Objects
For the objects, it was just a matter of matching DOOM's to Wolf's. The
life sphere was easy, but the treasures I had a problem with. DOOM doesn't
have any treasures, just power-ups. So I used which ones fit the best. The
CD treasure is supposed to be Type O Negative's Origin of the Feces, but
I was limited by the object size and my artistic ability. I also didn't
bother giving everthing a shadow, like in Wolf, maybe in a later release.
Another problem was that DOOM doesn't have many of what I call "walk-
through objects". These are the kind that are just for decoration and
don't do anything. I had to make a few and repeat some, especially the
gore ones. The ceiling lights were another problem, no corresponding DOOM
object. I ended up using a couple of the fire balls from DOOM and let it
go at that. The "non-walk-through objects" like the columns and suits of
armor were easier, I just had to pick ones that fit, some needed to be
scaled. I tried to use the vines from DOOM, but they didn't work, so I used
the big tree to replace Wolf's vines. Some people may not find it easy to see
past them, but that's what they're for. You just have to remember you can
walk through them.
One big problem I came up against was you can't have an object be 64 pixels
wide. The shotgun graphic is 63 pixels, so I guess that's the limit.
Apparently, the game has a problem trying to rotate a graphic so it's
facing you all the time if it's 64 pixels wide. Since Wolf is basically a
grid of map positions, it must consider an object "inside" the grid lines
and when you rotate, the graphic must rotate with you. When it's to wide,
it "touches" two grid lines at once and causes a crash. At least that's
my theory. All I know is you must keep all objects less than 64 pixels wide.

V3. Enemies
Ah, the biggest problems occur here. Most were minor in that I had to get
the new graphics to fit. Some scaling and trimming was necessary for most
of them. Heres a commentary on them all:
        
        Brown Guards replaced with former humans. Just a lot of trial
        and error on sizing.

        SS Guards replaced with former human sergeants. Ditto

        Officers replaced with imps. Same again.

        The Undead replaced with Demons. For some reason, the maximum
        image size on some of the facing left or right graphics were 500
        units smaller than the rest. Had to scale them all down to fit.
        This made for a smaller enemy, and one that doesn't quite fit the
        role. I had run out of shooting enemies to put in, so the demons
        chew on you from a distance.

        The Dogs replaced with lost souls. A nice effect here. Again, scaled
        to fit, but made them fly at head level so they chew on your face,
        not your groin like the dogs did.

        Hans Gr”sse replaced with former human commando. The best one, and
        easiest. A direct import, no scaling needed. The only problem
        was with the death sequence. It caused a crash until I connected
        all the body parts that fly off when you shoot him (like the top
        of his skull). When I connected the pieces so they all touched,
        there was no crash. I didn't have this problem with the Arch-vile,
        so who knows?

        Dr. Schabbs replaced with a Baron of Hell. A good one here. Little
        scaling, and made those hypodermics into fireballs. Looks good. A
        problem here with the fireballs. I had them near the edge of the
        scene, but that caused a crash. Moving them to the middle, and
        positioning them so each frame had part of the fireball touching
        the fireball in the next frame fixed it.

        Hilter's Dummy (or Ghost) the one in black robes. Replaced with
        cacodemons. A good one with a long death-scene. Replaced the
        fireballs, also.

        Hitler. Hmmmm... Had a great plan to use the spider demon and the
        arachnotron here. I was going to have the spider demon replace
        Hitler in his armor, then morph into an arachnotron to replace
        Hitler himself. The problem was the spider demon graphics were
        up to 195 pixels wide, and after scaling them to fit 64 pixels,
        it looked rediculous. Dropped that idea and used a hell knight
        which changes to an arch-vile. Not as effective, but it was all
        I had left. It would have been better with the spider demons,
        because they use chain-gun-like weapons, which would have matched
        Hitler's better, as it is, you just get the Hell Knight throwing
        invisible fire balls at you. Same with the Arch-vile.

        Otto Giftmacher was replaced with a Cyber demon. They both have 
        rocket launchers, so it was a natural. I had to do a little
        altering with the death sequence, as I only had three frames to
        do it with. Instead of the cyber demon exploding in a red mist,
        he kind of melts. Not the best effect, but I didn't have much
        to work with.

        Gretel Gr”sse was replaced with a Mancubus. I needed another
        chain-gunner and the Manucubus sort of fits the bill.

        General Fettgesicht was replaced with a Revenant. I needed something
        to match a chaingun and rocket launcher, so the Revenant was the
        only choice.

        The Pac-man ghosts were replaced with different-colored Pain
        Elementals. A useless character if there ever was one. It would've
        been better if they could be killed.

V4. You and your weapons
Not an easy one here. I had to scale to DOOM graphics a lot to make them
fit. The effect wasn't what I hoped, but it's all I could do.

        The knife replaced with the fist. Came across a problem here. In
        DOOM, you walk around with your right hand ready and punch with
        your left. This caused a crash in Wolf. Apparently, for the
        animation to work, the objects in frame 1 must overlap or touch
        the objects in frame 2, and so on. So, now you punch with your
        right hand.

        The pistol replaced with the pistol (what'd you expect?). Just
        some scaling here.

        The machine gun replaced with the shotgun. Scaling again.

        The chaingun replaced with the chaingun. Ditto. I was thinking
        of using the plasma rifle, because I could extract the sound for
        that from DOOM. I couldn't get the chaingun sound from DOOM, but
        there's not a hell of a lot of difference. And a plasma rifle
        would look funny just firing without a ball of plasma shooting out.

        Your victory run. Put in the soldier graphics and since there
        was no jump for joy in DOOM, just had him shoot and used the 
        barrel explosion for a sound effect. My credit screen here also.
        Another note, this one about Wolfedit. I was fooling around with
        the end sequence and noticed that Wolfedit will reduce
        the maximum graphic size when you insert a graphic smaller than the
        original. Most of the frames for this sequence were set at a
        maximum size of about 1500 units. When I put in the new graphics,
        scaled to fit the two frames that were set at 1024 units, they ended
        up being around 1012 or so. The last two frames, since they were
        smaller, were around 800. When I reopened the file to add my credit
        line, the max size had been reduced to 1024. I had to reinsert
        the last couple of enemies and the end sequence from a backup file
        to get the max size back.

V5. Sounds
I thought I was going to have a big problem here, but it turned out to be
easier than I had expected. I just extracted the necessary sounds from
DOOM, resampled them to Wolf's sampling rate and inserted them. One hitch:
not all the sounds are accessible from both programs. So, there are a few
that have not been changed, either because I couldn't get them from DOOM,
or I couldn't insert them into Wolf.
I did run into a slight glitch. I had about 90% of the sounds inserted
when I started to get crashes every time a former human soldier saw me and
tried to yell out the warning. After a few minutes of swearing, I fooled
around with the last couple of sounds I had inserted and found that the
very last one had caused the problem. It's the one that Gen. Fettgesicht
says when he dies. Wolfsnd reported this sound was (I think) 1.8 seconds
long, but inserted the sound at 1.85 seconds. This was enough of an offset
to throw things out of whack. But it only corrupted the guard's initial
yell, if you played a level with no guards, the crash wouldn't happen.
I extracted the sound, trimmed it to exactly 1.8 seconds, reinserted it,
and had no problem after that. If anyone hears of a new or different
program to edit Wolf sounds that lets you edit ALL of them, let me know
where to find it. Same with DOOM. The only sounds not changed are the
machine guns of the SS and big guards, the pistol sound of the guards,
the treasure pick-up, the sphere pick-up, and some other minor ones.
Another note to Type O Negative fans: check out the secret door sound,
it's a clip from "Machine Screw" sampled straight from the CD. Since there
is no corresponding sound in DOOM, I used it. 
You'll probably notice that most of the sounds are louder than the original.
This is probably due to resampling the DOOM sounds from around 11,000 mHz
to fit in Wolf's 6896 mHz sampling rate. It turned out well, especially with
the machine gun, which is now a fully automatic shot gun, and a powerful
booming sound to go with it.

Well, that's about it, hope you enjoy the patch, I'll be glad to hear
any compliments, or flames, but don't be too critical. I have admitted
I have no artistic talent, and all the credit goes to id. I just did
some transferring and a lot of scaling.

L.D. 10/29/94
