I don't know what I hate most... readmes or demos, and here I am doing both - lol.

THE OFFICIAL 'BLAKE STONE EXPERIMENT v0.00000001 READ ME'

Why the demo?  Well... I'll tell ya.  While I have been designing maps in the Wolf/SoD environment for many years, the Blake Stone experience is relatively new to me.  Sure, I have been playing BS as long as anyone, but I have never had the itch to make maps for either AoG (Aliens of Gold) or PS (Planet Strike).  However, after talking with a couple of the mapping gods (AReyeP and Arielus), I decided to give it a shot.  When I stopped to realize that there aren't many BS maps out there, well... I figured I might try to help fill the void.

At the moment I am working on two map replacement sets (one for AoG and for PS).  The AoG set will contain 90 levels (15 levels in each of the six episodes) and the PS set will contain the standard 24 levels.  Since BS has many features not seen in Wolf/SoD, I felt it prudent that I make a little mini-set (demo) and unleash it on the public to see if I made any major errors in my level design.  While I have made and tested thousands of Wolf/SoD maps, BS is virgin territory.  I have no idea if one of the new features conflicts with another, as an example.  I can test and test and test, but will I find all the bugs?  Hardly.  I won't be comfortable releasing a BS set until I have designed and tested a few hundred maps.  Since there aren't that many BS sets out there to begin with, there really isn't much for me to test.  Sigh...  So, if something bad happens while you play (it shouldn't, but I have to say that to cover my butt), please drop me a PM at DHW and let me know what happened.

This file contains three files, one of which you are now reading (I figured that out all by myself).  The other two files *should* be all you need to play my maps.  I have sent them to a couple of people who have been able to play them by simply overwriting the existing files within their PS directory.  Making backups of the original files is ALWAYS a good idea.  I used v1.01 to play/test/create these maps.  I am not sure how many versions there are of PS, but that is what I used.

Hmm... sure sounds like I don't know much about PS.  And hey... it's the truth  :)

Okay... let's talk about the maps for a second.

There are six maps in this package.  They are the first five normal levels and one secret level (accessible off of level #2).  For the most part, they get progressively harder, much like the original game.  In general, I used the same types of walls within each level as they appear within the game, thus hoping to retain some of the original feel.  The maps may be a little bit tougher than the originals, but they are beatable even on the higher skill levels.  I have been able to get 100% ratios on all six levels, so there should be no bugs in that regard.  If you can't get 100%, then you just ain't looking hard enough!  :)  My maps are always meant to be explored.  If you want to get full bang for your buck, go for a perfect game.

I have tried to ensure that you cannot get trapped by not picking up a key and then using a teleporter or a one-way door (or any variation thereof).  Should you find a way to trap yourself, look around for secret walls.  If you truly are trapped, please be kind enough to send me a PM with the details.

On a final note, as many of you know, I have spent the better part of the past decade making Wolf/SoD maps.  I have also tested 100's of other people's maps as well (still doing it - lol).  Should any of you decide to take a stab at making BS maps, you may run into some difficulty figuring out how some of the new features work.  If you have any questions or need an opinion of your maps, then drop me a note and I will be glad to help.  The documentation that comes with MapEdit is good, but isn't perfect.  I still give Buss and his friends a ton of credit for putting that together!

Usual thank you list - 
Steve and Ariel for the push (not that they had to push hard)
Everyone at DHW who puts up with me - lol
JAM/Apogee
and of course Brian Lowe and his yellow site... one of the few places one can go for everything Blake Stone.

Peace,
ack






