

                        Welcome to Strife Pt.2

     Its 1942...Europe is in ruins from the Nazi war machine. They seem to be invincible, 
as nothing seems to stop their advance. Rumors abound as to how the Germans had become 
so powerful. Meanwhile, a German spy captured by an allied listening post in North 
Africa has started to talk a bit. He talks of a hidden base in the French Alps, nestled 
between two peaks and buried in the side of a mountain. He speaks of continuous shipments 
of arms, supplies and treasure. He speaks of a titanic facility housing over 800 
soldiers and their "servants", a bunch of undead filth. As you read over the intel 
and look at the aerial photos, a sudden chill runs up your neck and your hair stands 
on end....Schabbs!!! It can't be! You killed him in Istanbul more than 2 years ago! 
As you read on, you realize something even more sinister. The rumors of Hitler and 
his minions stealing the Spear of Destiny must be true, for the German war machine 
seems un-stopable. Not even the sheer numbers of the Allies can slow them down.....

     Absorbing all of this, you sit down to plan the mission. First, you must find 
your way to France, then on to Castle Streit (Strife)!
     Some time later.....You stand looking at the guard's lifeless body. He had brought 
your meal--You stood aside the door and grabbed him as he entered, choking his scream 
as you plugged him with a well placed 7.65 mm slug from his own gun. Equipped with 
the gun and the knife from his belt, you contemplate how to deal with the two SS 
guards in the next room. And so it begins.....


                       A bit about the game...

Part 2 is made up of levels that didn't make it into Part 1. It's taken a long time 
to get this set done because of my arthritis issues. I'm punching on 89 years old 
and the old hands don't work quite as good as they used to. Thanks to some new technology 
with the computer and some help from Andy_Nonymous for his SDL experience, this set 
has finally seen the light of day. Brian Lowe has also contributed his level decoration 
skills and enemy placements to one of my maps..you'll see.There is also a stained 
glass wall from Executor.. This is a difficult set and I sent the cheats a packin'. 
Only the "MLI" is left for those of you that are feint of heart.


Pick up all the ammo you can, and especially first aid, as there isn't a huge amount 
lying around. Each level has at least one extra life available, either in the open, 
or hidden. Some floors also have adrenelin hypos lying around for that extra kick 
during those "stressful" situations.

There a LOTS of secret areas. Some contain treasure, ammo, first aid and even exits. 
It's always a good idea to explore the floor after dusting off the denizens to find 
the secrets.
Beware of ambush points too because you might think you killed'em all....Not all 
secret areas are behind pushwalls. Most of the pushwalls are behind a wall decor 
of some type and some of the exit keys are hidden in secret rooms. 
.SAVE OFTEN!!!!



Well enough of this bibble-babble, go blast some Nazi trash and enjoy the game!
Lock and Load and watch your six!!
This will quite probably be my last set...we'll see how that goes.

Lakota Bucksnort, 2013
 
