MAPSOD Patch Batch Version 0.50 (Not even a full version!)

By R.S. Bradbury   Compuserve 75561,1550

     I don't know about you but I can't get enough of the Wolfenstein and
Spear of Destiny duo. I am disappointed when I see the mapping utilities
for Wolfenstein 3D but none for Spear of Destiny! I am not a crack 
programmer yet, but where there is a will (and desire) there is a way.
I made a batch program that will make the program WOLFMAP aka WOLFMP.ZIP
work with the Spear of Destiny game set. WOLFMAP will process your SOD
Mission One (for now) gamemap and maphead and generate maps that rival
those that FORMGEN'S GAME CREATOR makes.

Copy my MAPSOD.BAT and SODMAP.CFG files to the directory you have your
copy of WOLFMAP installed.

Copy the Spear of Destiny gamemap.sod and maphead.sod files you want mapped
to the WOLFMAP program directory.

Run the file MAPSOD.BAT and you will have your files changed to .wl3 type.
You will see WOLFMAP execute itself three times and in the process it will
make:
Episode 1 Levels 1-10 which is actually Spear of Destiny floors 1-10
Episode 2 Levels 1-10 which is actually Spear of Destiny floors 11-20
Episode 3 Level 1 which is actually Spear of Destiny floor 21
(You will see Episode and level numbers printed at the top of your maps
but the map files will be named in the manner that FORMGEN'S GAME CREATOR
names- Floor01.map up to Floor21.map. This scheme should be no harder to get
used to than the debugcodes such as the -tedlevel command.)

MAPSOD.BAT is primitve, as I know, but it does the work when nothing else is
available! The finished product is what you are shooting for anyway! MAPSOD
does all the renaming of files for you via the primitive DOS commands- no
C programming here! I did work my butt off re-configuring the WOLFMAP.CFG
file to make it work predictably with Spear of Destiny.

{WOLFMAP Version 1.2 by David Lummis} Thank you for inspiration David!

Enjoy! If you come up with a better way (and I know someone will) let me
have a copy. For now we all will use mine!

Revision (3/9/95) Version 0.75 patch batch for David Lummis' WOLFMAP V 1.2
mapping program. Included now is sod3map.cfg and mapsod3.bat to map your
Spear of Destiny Missions 2 & 3. Also included is a simple batch that cleans
up after you get your floor files out of the WOLFMAP directory- it only
deletes the *.map files and nothing else.