
Text file accompanying the Wolf Hour add-on to Wolfenstein 3-D.

Wolf Hour V2.50.

Thank you for wanting to play my add-on to Wolfenstein 3-D, Wolf Hour.
This Wolfenstein adventure has been made using:
The Wolfenstein 3-D source code by Id Software.
MapEdit by David Huntoon, Bryan Baker and Warren Buss.
WolfEdit by Bill Kirby.
FloEdit by Florian Støhr.
Thanks to the Wolf3D Bunker by B J Rowan for supplying necessary files and info on 
compiling.

The graphics used in Wolf Hour are for the most part from the original Wolfenstein 
3-D.
Some images are imported from ”Spear” and a few from ”the Lost Episodes”.
All additional graphics are by me, no third party graphics have been used.
The VGAGRAPH.WL6 in Wolf Hour is edited by me. It is based on the one found at the 
Wolf3D Bunker.
After compiling the code and starting the game using the VGA files found on Mr Rowan’s 
site,
I noticed a new logo in the memory screen, where the Apogee logo used to be.
If anyone has any knowledge of, or ownership to this logo, please let me know.

For copyright reasons the set requires that the player owns a registered version 
of Wolfenstein 3-D.
(The source code has not been released for all game files.)
The files included in the WOLFHOUR.ZIP are:
WOLF3D.EXE
GAMEMAPS.WL6
MAPHEAD.WL6
VGADICT.WL6
VGAGRAPH.WL6
VGAHEAD.WL6
VSWAP.WL6
and WOLFHOUR.TXT (this file).
(The files AUDIOHED.WL6 and AUDIOT.WL6 are NOT included).

How to install Wolf Hour.
Create a new directory called Wolf Hour.
Copy all files from your Wolfenstein 3-D directory to the new Wolf Hour directory.

Unzip WOLFHOUR.ZIP in the Wolf Hour directory and replace all files that your are 
asked to replace.
Now you can play the original Wolfenstein 3-D from its directory and Wolf Hour from 
the new directory.

The Wolf Hour add-on includes the following new features:

A new gun added, a Missile Launcher, using its own type of ammo, missiles.
The Missile Launcher comes with 2 missiles, (additional missiles are picked up).

A total of 10 missiles may be carried at the same time.
”Pools of poison” included. Make BJ lose 20% health or die if health <= 20%.
”Pools of water” add 3% to BJ’s health when health <= 20%.
2 additional keys included. A bronze key and a silver key, (the original silver key 
is now called a brass key).
BJ starts with just a knife.
The pistol included as an item to be picked up. Comes with 4 shots.
The chaingun comes with 12 shots, (the machine gun comes with 6 shots as before).

The 25 ammo clip included.
”Sub” mutants included. These carry no gun. They are almost as hard to beat as officers. 
Attack with knives.
The Ubermutant included. Made faster than Grosse, and (on "Bring’em on" and "Death 
Incarnate" ) harder to beat.
Hitler, Fake Hitler, Fettgesicht and Giftmacher made harder to beat on "Bring’em on" 
and "Death Incarnate".
”Death Cams” disabled.
Fettgesicht drops a Missile Launcher.
Grosse drops a chaingun.
The Ubermutant drops a 25 ammo clip.
The SS always drops a machine gun.
The mutant drops a full ammo clip (8 shots).
The guard and the officer drop pistols.
Some treasure values changed, the chalice also adds 25% to BJ’s health.
Customized order of songs.
Customized order of ceiling colors.
Some new sounds and graphics, including a changed intro screen and some additional 
info on the credits screen.
1 new episode consisting of 10 big levels. (Episode 3 renamed to ”Wolf Hour” other 
episodes empty).
1 secret level, not (necessarily) accessed from level 7.
New par times.
(And more.)

Notice on floor 9:
There is a theoretical possibility that the final boss may wander beyond some poison 
without comming back.
This is very improbable, still it may happen.
At this state you will most probably not have enough health to follow him.
If it happens reload the game.

All levels are tested on "Death Incarnate" starting with just a knife,
and getting 100% in all three bonus categories.

Notice that the chalice is both a treasure and a health powerup.
You can pick it up even when you have full quota of health.

Please notice. When you find a better gun for the first time it is automaticaly chosen.

If you run out of ammo and come across a gun you already have or some ammo, no gun 
is automaticaly chosen.
Choose one by typing a number.

Getting a Missile Launcher does not automaticaly give you any other gun.

The total number of enemies in the levels is sufficiently low to avoid the
"get new actor, no free spot in obj.list" error when missiles are used.
However, exagerated launching in big rooms may result in this error.

I hope players will find this set of levels for Wolfenstein 3-D interesting and fun 
to play.
Wolf Hour is freeware, all distribution must be free of charge. All 8 files must 
be included and no others.
The author of Wolf Hour kindly requests people not to modify Wolf Hour nor use parts 
of it in other add-ons.


Credits:


Level design, additional art and source code changes: Paal Olstad.

I did all the changes to the different features, the preliminary coding for adding 
the new weapon,
and the code for the new ammo type, the missile object.
I had some problems with the counting of the ordinary ammo when the missile launcher 
is used.
The missile launcher does NOT use any ordinary ammo,
but the first time you use it after having picked it up or chosen it
the ordinary ammo amount will appear to be increased with one shot.
This is immediately adjusted when you choose another gun.
If you have almost full quota of ordinary ammo when you start using the missile launcher,

you seem to lose some of it though.


Additional programming: Tommy Olstad.

My brother Tommy did all the more advanced extra programming
to have the missile launcher function in every respect.


The following files from the source code were edited:

WL_DEF.H
WL_ACT1.C
WL_ACT2.C
WL_AGENT.C
WL_DRAW.C
WL_GAME.C
WL_INTER.C
WL_MAIN.C
WL_MENU.C
WL_PLAY.C
WL_STATE.C


If you experiance any problems running Wolf Hour, contact me.
Other comments are welcome too.

p-olstad@online.no


Paal Olstad.


