                               COMMIESTEIN 3-D
                              -----------------
                              By Brendan Gordon

This is a patch for Wolfenstein 3-D, made especially for people who would
like to blow away Communist soldiers and never had the chance to.

SETTING:
It is World War III, and the Chinese, assisted by the Russians, have started
to conquer the world. After the Chinese conquered Asia, they attacked Europe,
and after they destroyed the U.S. Pacific Fleet, they landed on the North
American mainland.
  The U.S. government, formerly run by fat cats who saw no security hazard
in buying billions of dollars worth of el cheapo Chinese products in exchange
for important technology, was overthrown by populists who ordered a gigantic
military buildup.
  You loved to hear your grandfather tell stories about his escape and
subsequent James Bond-type operations during World War II. So, when war was
declared, you gladly joined the Army, so you would have a chance to do what
Grandpa did seventy years ago.
  You turned out to be a perfect soldier and spy. You were assigned you to
find out the plans of the Chinese to resurrect dead human bodies (dubbed
Operation Frankenstein). Only problem was, you were caught and thrown into
the prison dump known as Laogai 23.

MISSIONS
--------
Episode 1: Escape from Laogai 23
So here you are in the deepest part of Laogai 23. You have been tortured
severely, and the screams from neighboring cells in the cell block, as well
as your diet (being fed PLAIN RICE for the last TWO MONTHS!) have nearly
driven you mad. Finally, you were scheduled to be executed. But the day
before the execution, when a soldier was sent to torture you some more,
you decided you couldn't take it anymore! In a fit of madness, you throttle
the guard and steal his knife and gun. Ah well, a dinky .22 revolver, you
should be able to extract a better gun somewhere around, perhaps off one of
the secret policement also infesting the building.
  So now there he lies, in a pool of blood right in front of you. You're not
sure if the other guards heard you, but you know that they will have no mercy
on you for killing one of them. You have only two options: 1) Escape, or 2)
die in the process.

Episode 2: Operation Frankenstein
Yes, it's true! The Chinese HAVE been resurrecting human bodies! You must go
into the stone bunker where mad Dr. Hong is hiding out, and kill him before
he makes any more! (While you're at it, re-kill his army of mutants.)

Episode 3: Hitler's Spawn
Unfortunately, the Chinese have given their plans to the Russians. They have
apparently duplicated Operation Frankenstein, thanks to the crooked genius,
the inventor and General Sergei Gitlerov! If you kill Gitlerov, you will
strike fear into the hearts of the Communists, for Gitlerov is idolized in
both Russia and China (as you may know already).

Episode 4: The Final Battle
Well, well. It looks like now the Chinese and Russians are cooperating to
make chemical weapons. Plus, you have found out that Hong and Gitlerov have
already released hundreds of their Frankensteins. You must go in the building
and take out all the overseers of the process!

THE BADDIES
-----------
Here is a list of the bad guys that you will meet in your travels. Naturally,
if you played the original Wolfenstein, you will find them quite familiar.

1. Chinese Soldier
These guys are the regular members of the PLA (the misnamed "People's Liber-
ation Army"). They go down easily, but unfortunately, they are ubiquitous.

2. Guard Dog
They run around quickly, and when they bite you, you might see blood drops
flying off from you. Don't let them get close to you!

3. Chinese Secret Policeman
These are somewhat harder to kill, usually taking about five or six shots.
They also shoot rapidly.

4. Frankenstein
Mad Dr. Hong's creations, these walking corpses are about as hard to kill as
the secret policemen, and fire immediately when they see you. If you look
closely, you might see the hand with the gun and a pair of eyes in their
chest. Since they're basically stitched together, they are unstable, and it
is fun to watch their heads pop right off when you kill them.

5. Russian Security Guard
About as tough as the regular PLA soldiers, but are annoying in that they
run and zigzag like rabbits.

6. The Hulks
There are several of these giants in armor, both male and female. They are
very hard to kill; unless you have a cache of ammo and medikits nearby, the
best option is to run!

Watch out! After all the dead bodies that you left behind, there should be
ghosts looking for you for revenge! In the case you do find a ghost, just
run -- bullets have no effect on the supernatural, but if they touch you,
you're dead!

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS:
I would like to thank Chris Chokan for giving me most of the editors to make
this patch, and for his Chokster's Super Chokage program; not to mention the
great help he has given making the game.

Brendan Gordon
