INTRODUCTION

Welcome to Beyond the Grave! Beyond the Grave is my first mod/TC. I hope your playing 
experience is enjoyable!

KNOWN ISSUES

I tried to make this game as glitch-free as possible, but nothing is perfect. Here 
are some known issues with the game:

QUICKSAVING/QUICKLOADING:Using quicksave and quickload (F8/F9) causes a lot of problems 
(eg: inventory items are not saved correctly). Use F2 and F3 to save/load.

SOUND ISSUES: Occasionally, the game is known to crash when a sound plays right at 
the same time a MIDI track loops.     

DISPLAY ISSUES: For some reason, minimizing the game causes the numbers on the HUD 
dissapear. Try to avoid minimizing the game.

OTHER ISSUES: Occasionally, the attack frames get messed up when restarting a level 
after dying. Reloading the level or the game seems to fix the issue.

If there are any other problems, please let me know about them so that I can address 
them in future versions of this game. 

GAME DIFFICULTIES

When you start the game, you are prompted to choose between 4 difficulties. The harder 
the difficulty, the stronger and more numerous the enemies. You will also notice 
that the amount of wards (discussed in the items section) you start with differs 
on each difficulty level.

WHERE'S MY GRAVE?: This difficulty is only recommended for sissies and people with 
no FPS/PC gaming experience. Note: there is no enemy spawning on this difficulty, 
which eliminates a lot of the surprise/horror elements in the game.

MAYBE JUST A SIP: This is a slightly better place for the inexperienced to start 
than the previous (mainly because we won't make fun of you AS MUCH for playing on 
this difficulty). Enemy spawning is left intact and certain enemies are stronger.


RAVENOUS: This is the recommended difficulty setting. It provides a decent challenge 
even for experienced players.

EVEN DEATH WILL BLEED: If you are a veteran player, someone who likes a good challenge, 
a masochist, or someone with suicidal tendencies, then this is a difficulty fit for 
you. Note: you begin with no wards.       
KEYBOARD CONTROLS

ARROWS     Move/Turn
W&S        Move Forward/Backpedal
A&D	   Strafe Left/Right											
ALT	   Strafe
SHIFT	   Run
SPACE	   Use door/switch/pushwall
CTRL	   Shoot/Attack
X	   Alternate Fire/Attack
R	   Reload
T	   Use Item
F          Kick
C          Cast Infernal Power


1	   Fists/Machete
2	   Single Action Revolvers
3	   Double Action Revolvers
4          High Capacity Revolvers
5	   Shotguns
6	   Repeating Rifles
7	   Heavy Rifle
9&0        Select Item
I	   Use Indurating Amulet
BSpace	   Use Healing Serum

Tab	   Show items and current ratios
U	   Toggle Crosshair
M	   Show Level Map
P	   Capture screenshot
F1	   Help
F2	   Save game
F3	   Load game
F4	   Sound menu
F5	   Full Screen On/Off
F6	   Controls menu
F7	   End Game

MOUSE CONTROLS

Button 1      Fire/Attack
Button 2      Alternate Attack
Button 3      Infernal Power
Mousewheel    Select Item

NOTE ABOUT CONTROLS: If you want classic Wolfenstein 3D controls, change 'W' and 
'S' in the controls menu to up and down arrows.

THE STORY

In a time and place where chaos, violence, and crime were rampant, two brothers, 
Sartana and Pike, were renowned and feared. Born as twins in 1840, they had become 
the most sought after hired guns in the west by the time they were 20. Eventually, 
their reputation had earned the attention of civil war officers and between 1861 
and 1865, they fought for the Union. Together, they racked up quite the body count 
and both earned medals of honor for valor and devotion by the end of the war.

After the war, the two brothers made their living as bounty hunters. As the two further 
developed their reputation, Sartana noticed Pike slowly turning into someone he did 
not recognize. Pike became cruel and ruthless. He didn't just simply kill the men 
who had bounties on their heads; he would capture them, bind them, and torture them 
over long periods of time. Eventually, Pike changed his name to Devil Eyes; it was 
fitting given the fact that Pike enjoyed gazing deeply into the eyes of his victims 
as the life slowly left their bodies. 

Some years later, news about people being kidnapped in the dead of the night for 
unknown reasons spread like wildfire. The kidnappings were committed by a mysterious 
cult, led by a trio called The Unholy Trinity (Jilaiya: The Witch, Droge: The Warlock, 
and Zagan: The Antipope). Bounties were put in place for various cult members. The 
rewards were high, so high that Pike became greedy. He no longer wanted to split 
the rewards, which caused a rift between the two brothers. One night, while Sartana 
was sleeping, Pike went out on his own in search of the cult.Sartana awoke in shock, 
knowing that his brother had abandoned him. He was alone. 

After a couple more years of lone bounty hunting, Sartana yearned for the quiet life 
and made way for North Carolina where much of his family lived at the time. During 
his trek, an enigmatic hooded lady, seeming to appear from thin air, approached him, 
claiming to have news of his brother's whereabouts. Sartana was convinced that the 
woman was lying until she tossed him Pike's prized Colt 45. He knew it was Pike's 
peacemaker because his initials were chiseled on the side of the gun. 

Sartana asked the lady about Pike's location. She unraveled an ancient-looking map 
and pointed to an island, uncharted on any conventional map at the time, near the 
Bermuda Triangle. She called the place Isla de la Sombra (Island of the Shadow). 
She then gave Sartana directions on where to acquire a boat to get to the island. 
Sartana then asked the strange lady how she knew where to find him and how she knew 
about Pike. An impish grin crawled on her pallid face as she said, "my master knows 
everything; and you and your brother both bear the mark."

Sartana, confused, inquired about the mark. The woman pointed to the birth mark on 
the back of Sartana's neck and said, "You two were destined to be his left and right 
hand." She then walked away. Sartana called for her, but his calls fell on deaf ears 
as the hooded lady disappeared into the pitch black night.

Against his better judgment, Sartana decided to go find his brother. He headed south, 
amassing food and resources along the way, to the border of Georgia where he got 
the boat to get to Shadow Island.

After a few days of sailing, the boat crashed into a sandy shore in the middle of 
the night, waking Sartana from his slumber. He wasn’t sure if he had arrived at his 
destination or some random island. Regardless, he was weary from sailing and sought 
rest. 

Sartana moored his boat and stepped foot on the sandy shore, proceeding toward a 
vast forest in search of a suitable place to camp. As Sartana set up camp, robed 
hooligans emerged out of nowhere. He was surrounded. 

Sartana instantly reached for his Colt, but before he could get a single shot off, 
he was knocked out by a massive blow to the back of the head. Sartana awoke the next 
night in a decrepit vacant room lit by candlelight, stripped of his weapons, bound 
to an altar, and encircled by dark hooded figures decked out in long voluminous robes 
as black as night. A tall handsome man in a dusty grey coat and an open crown hat 
upon his head appeared in the distance, slowly making his way toward Sartana.  It 
was Pike, except he was not the same.

His skin had an uncanny pallor and his eyes glinted like emeralds frozen in ice. 
Pike gazed upon his brother. A dire grin slowly formed on his face, revealing tiger-like 
teeth. Sartana, in a weak voice, asked, "what happened to you Pike?

Pike responded, "Call me Devil Eyes." After that, Devil Eyes unsheathed a silver 
ritualistic blade and stabbed it deep into his brother's heart. Darkness cloaked 
Sartana's eyes as death enveloped him in its abysmal grasp.  There was no telling 
what lied ahead...  

GAME BASICS

COMBAT
The enemies you face will stop at nothing to hurl you back into the grave whence 
you came, so you'll need to familiarize yourself with your surroundings as well as 
each weapon in your arsenal (including inventory items as they can be very useful 
for getting you out of sticky situations). Hiding behind walls and knowing which 
weapon to use in any given situation can save your unlife. 

Helpful Advice: Using a weapon's alt fire indiscriminately can be fun, but also eats 
through your ammo very quickly (especially with weapons where the alt fire makes 
the weapon shoot faster). It is best to use a weapon's alt fire only in situations 
that call for it.

DOORS
Some doors (such as locked doors) are imbued with magical properties that make them 
shut automatically for inexplicable reasons. It is a good idea to shut doors as some 
enemies (like zombies) are too stupid to open them. 

EXPLORATION & SECRETS
The Island of the Shadow is full of areas not easily found. Thorough exploration 
can lead you to areas that contain treasures, useful trinkets, and weapons that you 
would only find later in the game. There are also many walls that can be pushed back, 
either manually or via switch, to reveal secret areas (press the 'use' key to push 
a wall or access switches).

Helpful Advice: Do you hate strafing against walls while holding the 'use' key to 
find pushwall secrets? Crystal Balls can save you on time and trouble when it comes 
to locating secrets. You won't be able to find all of the game's secrets with just 
Crystal Balls, but you should at least be able to find some.

INFERNAL POWER
Returning from the dead not only made Sartana stronger than ever but also infused 
within him infernal powers from the other side. These powers have granted him with 
the ability to emit a fiery stream of death from the windows of his soul. As awesome 
as this ability can be, it is wise to only use it sparingly as your energy supply 
is very limited (being overwhelmed by hordes of cultists or boss battles are good 
situations to use them).   

ITEMS

There are various items that will aid you on your quest. Some items can be used as 
needed (inventory items) while others will be activated the moment you pick them 
up and will wear off after an elapsed amount of time.

LIFE ITEMS

Blood Pools: Raises your life by 5 points, up to 100.

Blood Vials: Raises your life by 10 points, up to 100.

Entrails: Raises your life by 15 points, up to 100.

Heart: Raises your life by 25 points, up to 100.

ARMOR ITEMS

Protection Runes: Gives you 5 points of armor, up to 100.

Leather Armor: Gives you 50 points of armor, up 100.

Plated Armor: Gives you 100 points of armor, up to 200 total.

TREASURE

Money Bag: Adds 100 points to your score.

Silver Bullion: Adds 250 points to your score.

Gold Bullion: Adds 500 points to your score.

Treasure Chest: Adds 1000 points to your score.

POWER UPS

Wards: Gives you an additional ward. Wards revitalize you when your life falls to 
0. Be warned... once you run out of wards and your life reaches 0, final death awaits 
you.

Cloak of Protection: Grants user with superhuman resistance to injury, lasts for 
45 seconds.

Rage Sphere: Enhances both movement speed and attack speed, lasts for 45 seconds. 
  

POWER UPS

Baphomet: Makes you invulnerable, lasts for 30 seconds.

Bloodstone: Gives you a 100 point boost to your life, up to 200 total.

Imprisoned Soul: Gives you 300 life points. 

Blaze Orb: Fuels your infernal power.

Dybbuk Box: Maxes out your inventory supply of Poppets.  

INVENTORY ITEMS

Eyes of the Owl: Increases the user's perception by illuminating enemies, making 
them easier to see. Lasts for 90 seconds.

Life Serum: Gradually raises your life by 50, up to 100.

Indurating Amulet: Gives you 25 points of armor per use, up to 200 armor points total. 
 

Crystal Ball: Temporarily reveals secrets. 

Book of the Dead: Summons hordes of wraiths that obliterate anything in your path.


Poppet: This unique item temporarily paralyzes your foes. This item is especially 
useful against fast-moving enemies (executioners, werewolves...)

Infernal Scroll: Summons a ball of fire straight from the depths of hell. Good for 
obliterating large clusters of lesser enemies or taking down a particularly tough 
foe.

Keys: Enemies aren't the only things hindering your progress. Apparatuses called 
locked doors can be a major source of frustration. To conquer these foes, you need 
keys. There are four different keys: Gold, Red, Blue, and Green.  

WEAPONS

The denizens of Shadow Island all have one common goal: to kill you. In order to 
prevent them from succeeding, you will need to gather up an arsenal of death-dealing 
instruments. Most weapons have a primary attack and a secondary attack.

FISTS AND KICKS
You begin your quest armed with only your fists. How could you not? They are attached 
to you (for the moment). Once you acquire a more competent weapon, you won't be using 
your fists much... unless you have a death wish. You can also kick your enemies (it 
is much slower but it deals more damage than your fists). As an added bonus, you 
can also kick while using other weapons. Press 'F' to kick.  

MACHETE 
A large heavy knife with a broad blade that can be very effective if you can get 
it between you and your foes. The most wonderful thing about the machete is its ability 
to maim and dismember. Enemies that fall to your blade almost always die with a part 
(or parts) of their anatomy missing. 

PEACEMAKER 
An accurate single action revolver that packs a decent punch. It can shoot faster, 
though less accurately, by fanning the hammer. The peacemaker is probably one of 
the most versatile weapons in the game and is a favorite among many gunslingers. 
The main drawback is its tedious reloading process as bullets have to be loaded individually.

Accuracy: Very Good
Power: Good
Speed: Average

FRONTIER 
A double action revolver made by two close friends of yours: Smith and Wesson. This 
quick-shooter might not be as powerful or as accurate as the peacemaker, but it makes 
up for it with its speed. Additionally, the weapon's top break mechanism allows for 
the utilization of a speed loader which makes reloading much quicker.
Accuracy: Good
Power: Average
Speed: Very Good

RAINMAKERS
Incredibly fast-shooting swing-out-cylinder revolvers that have been modified to 
carry double the ammo capacity of a regular revolver. The Rainmakers are very handy 
in tight situations, and when used with a Rage Sphere activated you can easily clear 
a room with these twin brothers.
Accuracy: Average
Power: Poor
Speed: Excellent

BOOMSTICK
The Boomstick is a very reliable ally indeed. It may lack a lot of accuracy, but 
you aren't using a double-barrel shotgun for accuracy now are you!? This weapon can 
be fired either one barrel at a time or both at once for maximum damage.
Accuracy: Ugly
Power: Very Ugly
Speed: Poor

THE SAVAGE
The Boomstick's bigger, badder brother. This semi-auto beast will hurl your foes 
into an early grave with relative ease. Though it deals quite a wallop and can carry 
more ammo than its double-barrelled brother, reloading this weapon is slow and cumbersome. 

Accuracy: Poor
Power: Excellent 
Speed: Poor

THE RECTIFIER
This fast, high capacity repeater carbine is probably the most well-balanced firearm 
in your arsenal. It is an ideal weapon for disposing of lesser enemies. 
Accuracy: Very Good
Power: Good
Speed: Very Good

THE REAPER
A powerful repeater carbine that shoots high caliber silver bullets. It is more powerful 
and slightly more accurate than The Rectifier. Great for wiping out more powerful 
foes, especially those pesky werewolves.
Accuracy: Excellent
Power: Very Good
Speed: Good

DEVIL'S MULE
This mule doesn't like it when people are laughing. He gets the funny feeling they 
are laughing at him. Well... they won't be laughing very long when the trigger is 
pulled. One shot from this monster turns even the hardiest beasts inside out.
Accuracy: Excellent
Power: Turns foes inside out
Speed: Very Poor

CREDITS
		J. Nicholas Lewis(ThunderEnema)
			Project Coordination
			Story/Concept
			Level Design
			Programming
			Sound Editing

		Gerolf
			Graphics
			Sprite and Texture Editing
			Sound Editing

		Jesse Stevens
			Promotional/Title Screen Artwork


		Original Graphics
			ID SOFTWARE
			Raven Software
			Monolith Productions
			Capstone Software
			Apogee Software/3D Realms
			Bethesda Softworks

		Additional Graphics
			Realm667.com
			zDoom forums
			Majik Monkee
			Madwolf
			Reactor
			AReyeP

		Additional Code
			Tricob
			Wolf Skevos-Jones
			AlumiuN
			Chris
			Adam Biser
			Codetech84
			MCS
			Richter Belmont
			Zombie_Plan
			BrotherTank
			WLHack

		Original Sound Sources
			Activision (VtM: Redemption)
			Monolith Productions	
			ID Software
			Raven Software
			Lobotomy Software
			Realm667.com
		
		MIDI Music
			Sierra Games (Phantasmagoria)
			Monolith Productions (Blood)	
			Apogee Software (ROTT)

		OGG/MP3 Music
			"Leader" by Outbreak	
			"Iconoclast" by Icon
			Zombie theme by Fabio Frizzi	

		Additional Sounds
			Wolf Skevos-Jones (TotenkopfSDL)
			Various gun sound libraries

		Additional Music
			RonWolf
			Rodney A. Brubaker
			freemidi.org
			Activision (VtM: Bloodlines)

		Additional Level Design/Maps
			Ack
			Gerolf	
			Richter Belmont
		
		Beta Testers
			Cody Young
			Gerolf	
			Timothy George Wells
			Military
			Sigma64				 


EDITING UTILITIES

Havoc - Havoc's Wolf3d Editor

Chaos Software - ChaosEdit

Bloodshed Software - Dev-C++

Simon Judd and Gez - Slade Doom Editor

Anvil Studio

FL Studio

Sound Forge Audio Studio 10.0


SPECIAL THANKS

Id Software - for creating Wolfenstein 3D, Doom and other great games, and for releasing 
the Wolf3D source code to the public.

Raven Software - for making Shadow Caster, Heretic I/II, and Hexen I/II.

Monolith Productions - for making the greatest FPS of all time: Blood. 

Ripper and Chaos Software - for creating the Wolf4SDL source port.

Realm667.com & zDoom forums - for providing an extensive supply of sprite/texture 
resources to use for mods.

BrotherTank, Dean, and RonWolf - for running the Diehard Wolfers Forums.

Gerolf - for going above and beyond to help me create this game.

WSJ - for the reloading code, and for releasing the Castle Totenkopf source code 
which allowed me to implement enemy bullet tracing in this mod.

AlumiuN - for his advanced sound code which made using higher quality sound effects 
and music for mods possible.

Tricob - for helping me implement various coding features. 

Jesse Stevens - for making awesome promotional artwork and title screen art.

You - for downloading and playing this game.

If there is anyone I forgot to credit, please don't sue me! 

CONTACTING THE AUTHOR

If you have questions or comments about this game, you can send me an e-mail at one 
of the following e-mail address: 

chowpow13 (at) aol.com

Zeus024 (at) live.com

