
Wolfer Spotlight
BJ Rowan

 
BJ Rowan is an old-school Wolfer whose first add-on was probably posted on
CompuServe, and was also released as game C of "Wolfmaster", a DOS menu
package of levels included in Apogee's "Wolfenstein Super Upgrade Pack".
But unlike most old-schoolers who moved on to other things before the
internet took off, the self-proclaimed "total Wolfenstein addict" stuck
around to create a great web site, "BJ Rowan's Wolfenstein Bunker", and
used the Wolf source code to design one of the best add-ons of its time,
"Project Totengraeber."
 

On his now-defunct web site, BJ posted helpful tutorials on editing the Wolf
source code and designing levels; the latter can still be enjoyed at the
DieHard Wolfenstein Bunker. He was a perfectionist with an eye for detail and
quality: "Conflict in the Fatherland", arguably containing his best levels,
was over two years in the making; "Totengraeber's" subtle changes in graphics,
sounds and EXE made for a very satisfying end-product that has often been
recycled and imitated; even his readme's would be in both txt (formatted for
DOS, not notepad) and doc (Microsoft Word) formats.
 

BJ tended to release his add-ons in stages, probably because he took so much
time to design and test them. "Totengraeber" was released in two phases, and
I have seen a 6-level preview of his second mod, then called "The Revolution".
He also planned to debut his follow-up to "Totengraeber" episode-by-episode,
but unfortunately that never happened.


Except for a few posts on the Die Hard Wolfers forums in early 2004, not much
has been heard from BJ Rowan since the completion of "Project Totengraeber".
Was that his final work? Time will tell.

 

Andy Nonymous.

 

                    BJ Rowan's releases


Name of addon                Release       Notes

The Renovation               09/13/94     
Conflict in the Fatherland   05/10/99      aka "The Renovation II"
Project Totengraeber         12/24/00      2001 Official Wolfenstein 3-D
                                           Awards : Best Add-On

					   
                    Add-ons to BJ Rowan's releases


The Road to Despair          04/22/03      by Executor (previously Viper), an
                                           add-on to Totengraeber subtitled
                                           "Megastein 3-D, chapter 1"


                    Contributions to others' releases
                                                                                


2nd.zip                      10/16/99      by Ken O'Brien, BJ made the EXE
                                           (later to appear in at least 20
                                           other add-ons)
The Final Assault            09/01/03      by Executor, uses the Totengraeber
                                           source code, subtitled
                                           "Megastein 3-D, chapter 4"
Operation 333                02/29/04      by Joe M, uses the Totengraber
                                           source code
