The Doctor's Conference

A Wolfenstein 3D Adventure

Copyright © 2001  Ian Brown

Storyline

Under the direction of Doctor Schabbs, a gathering of all the eminent scientists in the Reich has been convened at a Leipzig laboratory. 

In pre-war Germany, the name Schabbs became synonymous with the creation of a master race. His experiments in eugenics were proceeding apace until German President Hindenburg banned his work. With the rise of Hitler and his Nazi Party in 1933, those restrictions were removed.

... This is his big opportunity! As the doctors meet in conference they are reminded that the war in Europe is exacting a massive toll on German personnel. To stem the tide of the Allied advance (and launch effective counter-attacks), the Reich urgently needs 1 million troops. Hitler has been in constant contact with Schabbs, checking the progress of his mutant zombie project. He has been assured that, given the right resources and scientific experts, he can supply, conveyor-belt style, within months. 

And your involvement in this, B.J.?

We are sending you to Leipzig to retrieve vital information about this mutant project, to 'disinfect' this zombie factory, and to assassinate Doctor Schabbs. 

It's "time to inject"!

Chapter 1 ... Storyline 

Walkthrough - Part One

Level 1-1:
You need to be on your toes right from the off! Make an immediate dash for the secret wall ... and things should be a lot smoother!

Level 1-2:
Apart from those pesky 'Schabb kids' (all clones!), you'll have little bother in this level until you get to the theatre suite.

Level 1-3:
Secret passage mania ... . Well, almost! There's quite an amount of equipment stashed behind those almost invisible doors.

Level 1-4:
Even by Nazi standards, this level carries a Government Health Warning! The domain of many visiting doctors, the Schabb kids have been banned from this one!

Level 1-5:
"Find the five syringes" - and the kids are back to help/terrorise you! Later, you'll reach Skeleton Corner - and then on to Pillar Playground ... .

Level 1-6:
Another extensive theatre area ... with Prof. Quarkblitz itching to meet you ... .   

Chapter 2 ... Walkthrough, Pt.1   

Walkthrough - Part Two

Level 2-1:
The Schabb family is expanding ... and proving pretty annoying!  No less than two dozen of them come swarming towards you in one area ... babysitting these nasty little characters really does tax you!

Other surprises await ... ... ... .

Level 2-2:
A hairy 'Guard of Honour' on the way to a false exit ... but things are more real than they seem! It will pay handsome dividends to keep bashing your head on those metal walls!

Level 2-3:
Lethal - utterly lethal! Once this was a one-level blast-through scenario; now, nestled in the middle of the Doctor's Conference, it's designed to take you to (acceptable) limits ... . 

'Jaffa Street' is where you put your head down and make a break for the exit. You're not expected to return a 100% enemy kill ratio on this one!!

Level 2-4:
Relax ... enjoy a little stroll through the library. Here's where Doctor Schabbs files away his evil schemes. Do tread carefully in the long corridors.

Chapter 3 ... Walkthrough, Pt.2   

Walkthrough - Part Three

Level 3-1:
Hope you've packed your trainers for this one! Move quickly ... and as quietly as possible ... through this marathon level!

Level 3-2:
A breath of fresh air ... fill your lungs while you can. Those kids are back - they seem to find it amusing to prevent you from reaching the lift ... .

Level 3-3:
More evidence that Doctor Schabbs is in the final stages of perfecting his technique. Remember to lean against some of those library walls ... .

Level 3-4:
A shorter level - with the fewest number of enemies - but savage! 
The library may give you more than books this time with its unique 'bottled health' ... but you're going to need it all for the final stretch. 

One version of Doctor Schabbs - ever unconventional - trundles towards you. I hope you've picked up the answer to him en route!!

Level 3-5:
A case of hoping you open the right doors at the right times and get your hands on the necessary ammo ... 

Chapter 4 ... Walkthrough, Pt.3

Walkthrough - Part Four

Level 4-1:
A stroll in the park! A paltry 60 guards between you and the exit ... .

Level 4:2:
Two sprawling sections where the bloodthirsty medics can't wait to get your corpse onto their operating tables ... if you've got this far, they're bound to be convinced that cloning you would result in a much more coherent fighting force than merely multiplying mutants!

Level 4:3:
This is a real mutant hive! Clearly, Doctor Schabbs' production line is reaching conveyor belt stage!  ... If things get any worse than this ... .

Level 4:4:
The cold concrete walls give way to even colder metal ones ... . A few terrifying ambushes just waiting for your muscular frame to appear ... .

Level 4:5:
Having encountered all kinds of clones, cousins and children up to now, get ready for your fiery introduction to the Emperor of Eugenics himself!

... Not that he'll be going out of his way to meet you - he much prefers you to come to him ... 

Chapter 5 ... Walkthrough, Pt.4

Installation & Operating Requirements

Ą Drag Doctor's Conference into the "Levels" folder. 

Ą Open Wolfenstein 3D. 

Ą You'll see a list of scenarios. Select Doctor's Conference from the list, and click OK.

... You're in business!!

Note ...

Ą Doctor's Conference requires Wolfenstein 3DŞ Full Version.

If you don't have Wolfenstein 3DŞ, you may like to make enquiries from one of Wolfenstein's chief advocates, Josh Mills ... 
e-mail: copperfield@worldnet.att.net

Ą Doctor's Conference requires a sizeable chunk of memory to run. I recommend at least 5 MB of memory.

Chapter 6 ... Installation 

Distribution & Use

Doctor's Conference is FREEWARE ... i.e. you don't have to pay a dime for the pleasure (?) of wading through these levels. 

What I do ask is that if you edit Doctor's Conference and choose to upload it, please tell me about it and change its name to something else.

Graphics
I've no problem with you 'borrowing' any graphics I have been responsible for. Many of my wall graphics are custom made (though I did borrow some material from various well known Wolf scenarios ... thanks to all the original authors!).

Special thanks must go to Clubey for his excellent work on the Professor Quarkblitz frames, to Reg for his 'Hitler-Schabbs,' to Bill for his syringe, to Laz for his basic design of both the Schabb's wagon and the orange robot suit ... and ... apologies for leaving anyone out!
 
Circulating
Please send Doctor's Conference in its entirety to every corner of the internet. It may just do something to keep Wolfenstein 3D chugging along. Fact is, there are lots of people who still play this great game. Put this scenario on DVDs, CDs, Zips, or the plain old floppies - whatever. 
Just keep the original documentation with it.

 Chapter 7 ... Distribution & Use  

Statistics & What's Next?

By the time the glorious words "Disinfection Complete" come up on your screen, the blood of more than 1600 'Schabbites' will have been spattered all over the floor and walls of this laboratory complex. You'll have picked up almost 350 treasures in the process - including countless syringes, knives, poisonous vials and mutating potions ... .

Next Off The Production Line ...

Currently, I'm preparing graphics and designing levels for two new scenarios:

Ą one with a North African theme (Afrika Corps);
Ą the other - a longer term project - based on the underground hospital located on the island of Jersey, occupied by German forces during WWII.

Do contact me with your comments, either at: 

ian.brown@sparticus.net

or through:

The Wolfenmac Club at Yahoo