!!!TURN WORD WRAP ON!!!

The Road to Neuschwanstein - A Wolfenstein adventure by Barry Christian

	Thanks for downloading The Road to Neuschwanstein.  The Road to Neuschwanstein is 
the final chapter in the long saga that began in 1998 with Wolf3d-60 and The Lost 
Fortress.  The Road to Neuschwanstein is a next generation Wolfenstein add-on that 
changes the source code.

	The Road to Neuschwanstein was designed to be hard.  Only the expert Wolfers will 
be able to solve the puzzles in the boss levels.  They are next to impossible on 
Death Incarnate.  So don't feel bad if you don't make it to the end.

	The Road to Neuschwanstein was not originally planned to be a next-generation Wolfenstein 
add-on, but I discovered some things and decided to compile the source code.  With 
the source code, I've tried to limit the changes I do, because I still want it to 
feel like Wolfenstein, with that atmosphere and everything.  Here is what has been 
done.


Complete list of changes:

-60 new levels with ratio reporting at the end of each level
-Episode structure removed
-New sound selections from Spear of Destiny
-Modifications to existing VSWAP file.
-Many new walls added to the VSWAP file.
-Two new keys added with status bar icons
-New title screen
-New credits screen
-Level end and game end pictures changed.
-Spear icon replaces gun icon in main menu.
-regular SS drops 8 bullets instead of 4
-New guard added: SS with chaingun.  He drops a chaingun if you don't already have 
one and drops 8 bullets if you do.
-New guard added: Scientist.  He will kill you with deadly hypos, but he is not hard 
to kill.  These are the offspring of the maniacal Dr. Schabbs.
-Weapons come with 10 bullets instead of 6
-Hans Grosse's strength increased the final time you fight him.
-MLI cheat now reduces your health and bullets by far.  It also takes away all keys 
you may have gotten.  The lower your health and ammo when you push MLI, the more 
it will reduce.
-Debugging keys removed(Your going to play these levels for real!)
-New Item added: 25 ammo box from Spear
-1-Up removed
-Officers shoot more accurately
-Messenger guards added, if you don't kill them right away, they will go and alert 
as many guards as possible in other rooms.  That means you may be in over your head. 
 

KNOWN BUGS:

- There are several cases where the digital sounds may cut off short or even quit. 
 I am not sure what causes this, but it happens occasionally in any Wolfenstein game 
you play.  The problem is that it seems to happen more in The Road to Neuschwanstein 
than in other Wolfenstein add-ons, so if it happens to you, press the B+A+T keys 
to reset the digital sounds.  If they still don't restore to normal, then the only 
thing I might suggest is to save your game, then quit and restart.

- Sometimes, the SS with chaingun guards will not respond right away.  This is a 
source bug I couldn't fix.

Storyline:

	As Death Knight falls, you prepare to enter the portal back to your time.  You gather 
as much ammunition and treasure from the future as you can, and then step through 
the portal.
	When you get back, you notice the volcano in it's normal state.  The tunnels are 
there, but the factory controls are not.  This means Death Knight is no more.  Destroying 
Death Knight removed him from time, restoring peace to the world, or so you think.

	When you go back to Berlin, you notice everything has been burned.  Castle Wolfenstein, 
on the outskirts was no more than a pile of ashes.  This stuns you, as lightning 
strikes.
	You make your way back to London and you find it burned too.  Something fishy is 
going on.  The only building standing is St. Paul's Cathedral, which is covered in 
soot.  You walk up to the entrance when a man stops you.  You asked what year it 
was.  He said it was 2000, which was 25 years later than the year you were supposed 
to return to.  You recall that you saw Death Knight punching buttons on his computer 
before you killed him, so you know why you returned to 2000 instead of 1975.
	You then ask the man what happened to this place, and he said it was a story that 
was passed down since World War II.  He then told you this story:

	"The Grosse Family had been given an artifact called the Spear.  They said some 
futuristic looking being gave it to them.  They then figured out they could do some 
mysterious things with it.  As the weeks passed, they used the Spear to make their 
greedy dreams come true.  Hans Grosse received the Spear around 1943.  He killed 
B.J. Blazcowicz, who would have been able to stop this empire we're under now.  Hitler 
had ordered Hans to take the body of B.J. Blazcowicz to him and when he did, he killed 
Hitler, and burned Berlin.  He told the world that he was now king of all. 
	As the years passed, he destroyed everything, killed billions, and created his fortress 
with what used to be Castle Neuschwanstein, the most beautiful castle in all Germany. 
 And Hans Grosse still rules with the Spear within Castle Neuschwanstein."

	Stunned by this story, you learned that you were supposed to be dead, and you also 
know that Death Knight gave Hans Grosse the Spear that he used to rule the world. 
 You began to think about how you were going to stop Hans Grosse and also how you 
were going to return the Spear to the Lost Fortress, where it belongs, out of the 
reach of evil characters.
	Then suddenly, a great fireball fills the sky, and a wave of electricity kills the 
man that told you the story.  Then an evil laugh fills the air, then the voice of 
Hans Grosse says "If you want a piece of me, come to Neuschwanstein", and that's 
just what you did.

THE "BOSS" LEVELS:

	I've desinged the boss levels so that only the expert Wolfer could beat them.  Don't 
feel bad if you can't brake the barrier, for it's next to impossible on Death Incarnate. 
 You will have better luck with these levels if youv'e played and beaten Wolf3d-60. 
 It's availible at my site,  bchristi.tripod.com.  If you haven't yet played and 
beaten that add-on, now would be the time to do it (It's in the My Add-ons section). 
  Only the extreme Wolfer will be able to beat the final level of the Road to Neuschwanstein, 
so if you make it to level 58 and can't get any further, consider yourself a winner, 
although you didn't really beat the game.

Level 58: Barrier

	The final barrier between you and Hans Grosse awaits you.  Heavily guarded, and 
some puzzles for you to solve toward the end.  If you make it, you'll have free access 
to Hans Grosse.

Level 59: Chamber of Hans Grosse

	The palace of Hans Grosse.  You will be doing a little key hunting before you can 
enter the room where he is staying.  The thick walls and officer filled halls are 
yet another chance for Hans Grosse to destroy you.  Hans Grosse awaits for you in 
a suite in which the greatest king of Germany stayed in, centuries ago.  Destroy 
Hans Grosse and bring honor back to Castle Neuschwanstein.

Level 60: Realm of the Spear

	Actually the basement of Castle Neuschwanstein.  This area was built by Hans Grosse 
so nobody would have access to the Spear.  It is a huge puzzle.  Only the lucky few 
can solve the puzzles built by Hans Grosse himself, and even fewer would even have 
a chance at taking the Spear from the clutches of Hans Grosse.

INTRODUCTION TO THE NEW ITEMS AND GUARDS

Copper Key - The third key for you to find.  Most levels have it.

Steel Key - The last key for you to find.  Not all levels have it.  It is always 
used to lock a door between you and the elevator.

25 Ammo Box - From Spear of Destiny.  It will give you 25 ammo.

Spear of Destiny - Hans Grosse's prized relic, and what your out to get!

Scientist - The offspring of the Maniacal Dr. Schabbs.  Watch out, because they are 
performing hideous experiments, and they want you dead!

LEVELS OF INTEREST

Level 1:  Here is where you enter Castle Neuschwanstein.  From inside the castle, 
you notice that this mission is not too much different from missions you've done 
in the past, as far as the layout and such.  But don't be fooled, you are in store 
for a completely new Wolfenstein 3-D adventure!  You will be going up against the 
finest of Hans Grosse's personnel, exploring many areas within the castle from musty 
dungeons to fine dining areas, and you will fight to the bitter end to put the Nazis 
in the history books for good. 

Level 7:  This is an uninhabited level.  Very gross, lots of mutants.  Some guards 
recently sent by Hans Grosse.  Be prepared to wipe the slime off yourself when you 
get finished with this floor.

Level 14:  A very confusing level.  You must find your way through the maze of steel 
hallways and rooms.

Level 31: The oldest level in the castle.  It has not been renovated at all since 
the castle was built. 

Level 57:  This level is a palace.  Beautiful gold walls and cobblestone parlors. 
 Rich tapestries and crystal chandeliers.  Seems like a paradise, but you never know 
what is hidded within the gold plated walls.

Level 58 - THE BARRIER:  This is Hans Grosse's shield against you.  It is the most 
heavily guarded level.  Although it is not large, it is very difficult to stay alive. 
 In part two of the level, you have to find a way to gain access to the Chamber of 
Hans Grosse, and it won't be easy.

IMPORTANT - A TIP FOR THE BOSS LEVELS!

- Be careful where you save.  There are many places in levels 59 and 60 that you 
can get stuck with no way out. 

Level 59 - CHAMBER OF HANS GROSSE:  You final confrontation with Hans Grosse himself 
awaits you.  Hans Grosse is amazed that you've come this far, and is going to unleash 
another little trick on you as a last chance to try to stop you.  You must wade your 
way through the officer-filled halls until you meet up with Hans Grosse in the center 
of the castle.  Hans Grosse has two SS w/chainguns guarding him.  These SS your greatest 
threat.  Finish them off before you take on Hans.  If you finally are able to defeat 
Hans Grosse, you will be given a key so you can eventually make your way into the 
secret realm, where the Spear awaits you.

Level 60 - REALM OF THE SPEAR:  You have made it into the secret realm of the Spear 
of Destiny, that relic that has been the source of Nazi power for almost 60 years 
now.  As you walk out of the elevator, you notice an steel key behind a barrel.  
That key is the final steel key that unlocks the room where Hans Grosse hid the Spear. 
 You think you could just walk over the barrel and get it, but you can't.  You are 
about to begin an adventure all in itself.  You must get that steel key, no matter 
how hard it gets.  On your journey,  you will encounter the sons of Hans Grosse, 
who pack chainguns just as powerful has he did.  You will encounter countless puzzles 
and mazes, but even if you struggle in to the end, do you actually think that even 
in death,  Hans Grosse himself would let you have his most valuable possession that 
easily?


A FEW GENERAL HITS AND TIPS:  Beating the Road to Neuschwanstein is no skip through 
the daisies.  The levels here were designed to be hard.  It will take a very skilled 
Wolfenstein player to conquer Hans Grosse's ultimate puzzle.  You will be going against 
Hans Grosse's finest personell, and conquering one of Germany's most famous castles. 
 Here are some tips to help you get through.

- Defend yourself.  When engaged in combat, hide behind a wall or something that 
would protect you.  Or, you could wait outside the door for the personell to charge 
toward you, then take them out.  Most rooms have multiple guards, officers, and SS, 
so you won't survive if you charge into the heat unprotected.  You have to play it 
smart.

- Check for secrets!  There are many secret passages in The Road to Neuschwanstein 
that contain things you need.  As you get closer to Hans Grosse, many things you 
can't beat the game without, such as keys and elevators will be found in secret passages.


- Destroy the guards as fast as possible!  You can't tell if a guard is a messenger 
guard, and if you kill them all fast, the less chance you have of a messenger guard 
sneaking away and alerting the entire level to your presence.

EPILOGUE (After the game ends):

	With the Spear clutched in your hands, you escape Neuschwanstein ready to conclude 
your final mission.  You have no trouble gaining access to the Lost Fortress.  Because 
you now have control of the Spear, you use it to break in electric current guarding 
the fortress, therefore, you don't have to gain access to the never-ending tunnel 
to get in. 
	Once your in, you seal the never-ending tunnel closed with the Spear, so once you 
leave, nobody will ever have access to the Spear again.  You then descend to the 
bottom of the fortress using the elevator you remember from 55 years ago.
	You then find the thin hall that the Spear had once rested, this was the place the 
Spear was meant to be, for it was hidden here because centuries ago,  some people 
with no evil intentions once accidentally misused the Spear, causing chaos in the 
world, so they hid it here for safekeeping.
	You slowly walk up to the casing, covered with dust. You then make that final decision 
to relinquish the Spear.  Once you put the Spear back in it's casing,  you are immediately 
transported back to 1945, the way you were when you first set your hands on the Spear 
in a mission to race Hitler to it.  You are home, the way you are supposed to be, 
the age you are supposed to be, as if you had never touched the Spear.  As V-DAY 
had come, Peace was returning to the world. Although you remember the your four post-W.W.II 
missions, you no longer bear the scars of the four incredible missions that you almost 
died trying to keep the Spear in Allied hands..... 


IF YOU ENJOYED THE ROAD TO NEUSCHWANSTEIN, YOU ALSO ENJOY MY OTHER ADD-ONS, AVAILIBLE 
AT BCHRISTI.TRIPOD.COM.

1. WOLF3D-60
2. THE LOST FORTRESS
3. DOMINATION
4. 6 DEPTHS OF TERRORISM
5. ARMAGEDDON
6. THE ROAD TO NEUSCHWANSTEIN

