Deep Freeze
A Wolf3d TC by Joe M and G McCreath

Story:

February 1942.The ally warship GE372 was out on patrol in stormy and freezing weather.The 
captain
of the ship looked out and it was windy and the sea was angry."We'll have to be careful 
around
this area but BJ will inform us of what he discovers"he said to his men.They moved 
further and
further.A long distance away an unidentified warship could be seen."That looks like 
a nazi
warship"said an officer.It was a nazi warship.Onboard was several nazi men.They saw 
GE372."Alarm"
yelled one of the men.The nazi commander sounded the alarm."Battle Stations"cried 
one of the
allies.They sounded their foghorn and tried to get help.The nazi warship began launching 
missiles
as GE372."They're firing missiles at us"cried Allied soldier Chavez."We're trapped"cried 
the
Captain."Try firing back or try to destroy the missiles"said an allied troop.The 
missiles got
closer to GE372 and hit it in the hull.The warship tilted from side to side and tried 
to escape.
It began to sink into the sea.It sank to the bottom hitting exploding.BJ had heard 
about it and
tried to find out who was onboard the sank warship.He was standing near the sea.He 
was stranded.
There was no way he could get home.How could he?.He had no radio and all near-by 
was a nazi
stronghold.The nazis would easily kill him.He found a gun.It has eight bullets in 
it.He hoped it
would help him fight his way out.A knife was in his pocket.He starting walking to 
the stronghold
and entered it quietly.

Weapons

Knife
Carried with you and use when you are out of ammo.

Pistol
One shot is good enough for one enemy.The only dead nazi is a bad nazi.

Nazi Assault Rifle
A small rifle that the SS use in combat.Grab it from them.

JM60 Chaingun
A powerful chaingun that will leave big holes in your enemies.


Enemies

Guard
Brown uniformed soldiers that are slow and weak.They will cry in pain when you hurt

them.

Scientist
With no armour and no good weapon.He has to go up to you if he wants to hurt
you.

SS
Three types of SS.One with assualt rifle,one with chaingun and one with flamethrower


Patrol guard
Carries rifle and is slow but dangerous.

Officer
Fast dark brown soldiers with lugers that easily hurt you.


Bosses

Boss 1:General Harkov
Armed with a panzerfaust.Run from him if he fires.

Boss 2:Josef Krist
Carries panzerfaust and chaingun.Take care when battling with him.

Boss 3:Captain Cronus
The main man of the gang.He will enjoy mutilating your body with his
small chainguns.


Additional credits to

ID Software (for creating Wolf3d)
Brian Lowe,Tristan [NAME REDACTED],Poet (source code tutorials)
ForGen Corporation (for creating the lost episodes of SOD)


Tools used to make this add-on.

Wolfedit 2.1 (Graphics insertion)
Borland C.31 (Code compilation)
Wordpad (Code editing)
Mapedit 7.2 (Levels)
Floedit (VGA files,sounds,graphics,endart editing)
Paint Shop Pro 6 (graphics)
Imftools2 (Music)