format:
E#M# : (Name)
Author: (name)
Misc Info: (text)

-------------------EPISODE 1: Castle Verruckter----------------------
E1M1: At Wolf's Gate
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: The second map to be created for the pack, it is your basic first level but
it does serve as an introduction for what's to come. Has the exit to the secret level.
You will first meet Guards, Officers, the Spectres and (If playing on the highest difficulty)
the Skeletal SS.

E1M2: Guard's Room
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: The first map created for the pack. Contains the first Machine Gun and a lot of
secrets.

E1M3: Skeletal Mazes
Author: Asuka2
Misc Info: This map reintroduces the SS if you were not playing on I Am Death Incarnate!, the Mutant and the Chaingun as well. To access the chaingun, you need a Golden Key that is found in a secret in the final room before the teleporter. 

E1M4: The Barracks
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: Features small pathways outside and a good amount of secrets. You will meet one of
your worst enemies here again.

E1M5: Laboratory Hideout
Author: Asuka2
Misc Info: Mainly features wood and steel, this map is the first hard times you will really get. Prepare to die, or save a lot. Or both. Features some ambushes too.

E1M6: Untitled Boss Level
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: A pretty hard map as well, be sure to have a Chaingun for this one, as you will meet Hans Grosse again here but don't be fooled. This isn't the end of the episode or the
level when you beat him, you still have some rooms to fight through. Features good secrets
and annoying boner ambushes.

E1M7: Dark and Light Halls
Author: Asuka2
Misc Info: Cool map. Huge amount of secrets. Lots of textures. Dont take the fake elevator.
'Nuff said.

E1M8: Treasure Keep
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: One of the reasons why this needs ECWolf. You can either walk straight to the elevator and finish this map in 5 seconds, or push the multicolor brick to reveal a small
hall with a chaingun and some ammo. Open the door, and there is two outcomes. Either die
like a moron, or come out victorious and the treasure is yours.

E1M9: Exit of the facility
Author: bitbob
Misc Info: Bitbob's first map in this add-on, features 5 Soldiers from Hell and 1 Gretel Grosse. Also the first Chaingun not in a secret! The final map of the episode by the way.

E1M10: Purple Halls of Doom
Author: Asuka2
Misc Info: The first secret level and definitely the easiest. Not easy though! It features
epic battles, not-so-epic ambushes, and a maze of skulls with more ambushes (and a secret
in each of them). You will also meet the Melee Cacodemon and perhaps even 3 One-Ups.

-------------------------EPISODE 2: Abschaffungsportal----------
E2M1: Deep Under the Castle
Author: bitbob
Misc Info: The first level of Episode 2. Contains a few secrets and a chaingun,
along with some mutants.

E2M2: Monochrome Halls
Author: Asuka2
Misc Info: Hefty amount of ambushes and some secrets, gets his name from the
black and gray halls. Will definitely give you a hard time.

E2M3: Skeletal Quarantine
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: Roebloz's first level in Episode 2.
Features a lot of Skeletal SS and a good amount of healing. Once you get to the metal halls,
prepare for it.

E2M4: Symmetrical Design of Doom
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: Almost fully symmetrical map (Aside from the exit and the secrets) this map is the
true first hardcore map. You will need to improvise, adapt, and overcome.

E2M5: The Laboratories
Author: Bitbob
Misc Info: Features a lot of mutants, an obnoxiously blue ceiling for some reason,
and a combo of mossy, steel and purple halls. Return of the red bricks!

E2M6: Corrupted Floor
Author: Asuka2
Misc Info: Pretty hard map, has a Chaingun you could easily miss in the silver
key room. Hell's presence seems to be floating through the air.

E2M7: The Terrible Truth
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: Pretty short map with only 4 enemies. Here you will learn the
truth about what happened.....

E2M8: The Gateway to Hell
Author: Bitbob
Misc Info: After learning the truth in E1M7, you go to the deepest parts
of the castle, where the portal to hell is located. Your task here is simple:
Enter the portal and activate the elevator inside to block the demons's 
access to Earth...Pretty long map, features a pushwall maze that leads to the
secret level, as well as the secret boss.

E2M9: Tower of Babel
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: Recreation of the Tower of Babel from Doom 1. Very hard map as it
is the final map of the episode. You are now in hell but to progress forward
you will need to destroy the Cyberdemon Lord, and all of his bodyguards
present. Kill or be killed.

E2M10: Queen's Keep
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: The location of the secret boss fight. You are given a chaingun
at the start. Get ready to defeat the two demons that are so dangerous
that the demons needed to contain them. This will finish the episode too.

----------------------------EPISODE 3: Hell Beneath------------------------

E3M1: Evil Incarnation
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: One of the most hellish maps in difficulty due to the obligatory
pistol start. Features each type of enemies (Minus the Cacodemons) and no
chaingun. Prepare for the two Officers at the start. Tip: The red walls with
a golden and purple "orb" on them are pushwalls, and are present throughout
all the levels and I will nickname them "Hell Doors". Normal secrets DO
still exist.

E3M2: Baphomet's Fortress
Author: Asuka2
Misc Info: Tough. Dumb. Lots of enemies. Secret Silver Key that isnt required to finish the level, but opens up to a lot of healing. The Hell Door in the golden key room will lead you to a LONG hallway with the exit to the secret level. However, be aware that once you are in the secret level, there is no going back.

E3M3: The Abyss
Author: bitbob
Misc Info: Features a lot of mazes and enemies, a lot of skull walls and
blue walls, however you do get some healing. Beware of the mutants in the blue
maze. Also, Spectres. If that wasnt enough, you get to have a rematch with
the Cyberdemon at the end! Note that since it is required that 2 of them are
placed (So that killing one doesn't make the episode end), it is impossible
to get 100% kills.

E3M4: Back to the Castle
Author: Asuka2
Misc Info: At the very start you enter a portal and you are back from hell!
You will go back at the end of the level though. :( Features a TON of secrets
and way less demonic enemies (Unless you count the SS as such, even then not
that much). Be sure to inspect the walls for secrets, even IN other secrets!

E3M5: The Icons of Hell
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: A lot of enemies, probably one of the hardest maps in the episode.
Features a Team FIR2 icon as the level layout, and a Swastika! Yay. Another
Cyberdemon rematch, which means you cant get 100% kills yet again.

E3M6: Twisted Verruckshit
Author: Various parts from Episode 1, Asuka2
Misc Info: The best parts of Episode 1, twisted to give you a hard time!
You better remember where the secrets were, if you do you WILL be rewarded.

E3M7: Calm Before The Storm
Author: bitbob
Misc Info: The first break from the SS soldiers since E1M3! Celebration!
Although there is NO weapons for you here. Probably one of the shortest maps,
you only have to go through 5 rooms before exiting. Features only one
Soldier from Hell fight. If you decide to go through the Hell Door you
will find a small pathway leading to many riches.

E3M8: No Rest for the Living
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: The penultimate map of the map pack, this one has had a lot of
effort put into it. You will definitely die. Watch your ammo. You will need it. Features a lot of enemies, a lot of ambushes, a lot of everything. It is
the penultimate map after all. If you manage to beat this, congratulations!
You can now proceed to the fight with the Destroyer, escape and seal hell.

E3M9: Final Showdown
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: No Mecha Hitler fight here! You will need to get the two keys before proceeding to main fight (and thus fight Gretel Grosse for the third
time). Before you enter the arena, save. You will have to kill the Destroyer
however his arena features two Soldiers from Hell again, as well as 1 Cacodemon. If you wish to venture into the small corridors at the back of the arena, beware as there are 4 SS guards that will attempt to ambush you, as well as two more Cacodemons lurking. You can however find 8 clips and two extra lives there, so it might be a good choice! The boss itself is a General Fettgesicht replacement. If you win, congratulations! You have beaten the map pack! However if you have yet to try it, attempt the secret level of this episode.

----------------------THE FINAL CHALLENGE--------------------------------
E3M10: Satan's Club
Author: Roebloz, Asuka2, bitbob. Original layout by ID.
Misc Info: The final challenge. A dickification of E1M1 from the original
Wolfenstein. Every single ammo clip counts here. Pro Tip: To kill everything here, shoot at it until it dies. Good luck.




-----------------------THE LOST LEVELS------------------------------------
I (Roebloz) had planned that some levels would not be good enough to actually make it in the Map Pack, but I asked bitbob and Asuka to at least keep one
design that would not be good enough. Now we have polished them, and its time
to show you the Three Lost Levels!

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
E4M1: On Your Way
Author: Asuka2
Misc Info: The scrapped Episode 1 map, would have been good in E1M8 if I
didn't have to make the Treasure Keep level of course. Fair amount of Guards
and SS, definitely easier than the following maps.

E4M2: Corruption
Author: bitbob
Misc Info: Would have been another fair try at E2M8 where everything would have started to get corrupted by the forces of hell instead of just having
a portal to go through. Probably on terms with E3M1 in terms of cruelty.

E4M3: Backbone
Author: Roebloz
Misc Info: What E3M9 could have been if E3M8 wasn't an hard level already.
Features a boss battle with a Cyberdemon (Using only the small machine gun!)
in tight corridors, lots of enemies, and a rematch against The Destroyer.
If you complete this, congratulations! We'ill see you for Damonisch Part 2:
Mission Annihilation!