Welcome to 60 New Levels of Absolute Carnage!---------------------------------------------Welcome to The Renovation II: Conflict in the Fatherland, the sequel to thereknowned 60-level conversion entitled The Renovation, released by Apogeesoftware in the "Wolfenstein Super Upgrade" pack. Each and every level inConflict in the Fatherland is hand-crafted by expert level designer Brian"B.J. Blazkowicz" Rowan, a total Wolfenstein addict for over 4 years now.More attention is paid to graphic appearance and playability than everbefore...these levels are right on par with id Software's original levels. Asthe designer, I made sure that all the levels offered a good combination ofhard-core Nazi-blasting action, and suspenseful atmosphere induced bymultiple secret rooms and realistic environments. And it's all backed by 6involving storylines.Disclaimer----------It is of the utmost importance that you refrain from contacting either ApogeeSoftware or id Software concerning these levels. They will not provide youwith any support for a modified product. If you have a question or aconstructive comment or you get an error message, feel free to send a messageto me, B.J. Rowan, at my e-mail address: bandit@coldmail.com.Why "BJ2" you ask? My, you are a curious one. Well, Conflict in theFatherland is the second set of 60 levels I have distributed. When Idistributed the first 60, I called the zipfile BJW60.ZIP. That mapset wasknown internally as "the first B.J. set". Conflict in the Fatherland,therefore, is "the second B.J. set", or BJW60II (BJ2). And yes, BJ3 is in theworks...46 new levels with a brand new EXE, and standalone installation (nofile renaming required whatsoever). While many improvements are being made tothe EXE, the fundamentals of the game are still firmly in place, and you'llhave no trouble recognizing anything when you play my next level set, due outbefore the end of the year. It takes a long time to design quality levels(Conflict in the Fatherland took almost 2 years off-and-on), but the endresult is a truly beautiful product, with immersive and exciting levels. Ihope you'll agree that Conflict in the Fatherland's levels are examples ofthe cream of the Wolfenstein crop! But don't let me try to tell you. Fire upthe game and go see for yourself! (And don't cheat! You're just ruining itfor yourself if you do.)============================================================================WOLFENSTEIN 3-D: CONFLICT IN THE FATHERLANDEPISODE ONE: Operation Schutzstaffel!	The Story So Far...You're William J. "B.J." Blazkowicz, the Allies' bad boy of espionage and aterminal action seeker.Allied intelligence reports that a run-down WWI German castle has taken on anew use. It's now being converted into a training center for theblack-shirted Schutzstaffel, also known as SS -- the ruthless "police force"of Nazi-controlled countries. Knowing the location of such a training centergives the Allies a tremendous chance to gain some ground in the war, andthey're not taking any risks that might lose them that chance -- so they'resending you to infiltrate the fortess and liquidate the trainees and any otherNazis you encounter.The castle is bound to hold many secret passages and caches of ill-begottentreasure, not to mention a good number of SA, or Sturmabteilung -- thebrown-shirted Nazi goon squad. Don't get cocky and start thinking that SStrainees are the only foes you'll face. There's bound to be some high-rankingNazi officers there to train them. Along those lines, intelligence reportsthat the second-in-command of the SS -- Hans Grosse -- may be visiting thefortress. If you should encounter him, use utmost caution in engaging. He isa very dangerous little maniac indeed.The fortress will be heavily guarded. Himmler's SS are extremely dangerousenemies indeed. They may be accompanied by vicious guard dogs and their SAbuddies, sometimes all at once -- be cautious when entering unfamiliar roomsand passageways. Do not assume secret areas are safe havens. The Nazis aretricky and they may hide where you least expect them: next to doors, inhidden rooms, and in niches in the walls. The castle is old and itsarchitecture is filled with such opportunities for your foes, who, unlikeyou, know the layout of the castle. Essentially, they have the upper hand inboth manpower and knowledge of the battlefield. But you, B.J., have the upperhand in brains, cunning, and killer instinctiveness. Which, I admit, would bean insult to anyone else, but....we all know you, Blazkowicz.One last note: you may find various opportunities to "bug out", as they sayin the air force -- in essence, to escape the castle and return home. You mayseize these opportunities if you choose, or, if your curiosity gets thebetter of you, you can stay to search for alternate elevator shafts tofurther areas of the fortress.Good luck, B.J. The Nazis don't know that we know about their secret trainingoperation, and we'd like you to keep it that way until they're all lyingdead.EPISODE TWO: Lethal Infestation-------------------------------In this episode, you are sent to investigate one of the Nazi's primary trooplodging bunkers. Your primary mission goal is not to destroy all the Nazisthere; that's only your secondary objective. Your primary objective is todiscover what kind of evil creatures have been dismembering the guardsstationed there. The Allies have overheard Nazi reports that some kind ofuncontrollable infestation is taking place at Castle Eisenschwert, set highatop a German mountain. The strangest of the intercepted reports centeraround suspicion that a Nazi doctor named Schabbs has turned traitorous andis somehow behind this whole mess. We have no further information on thatsubject.To prepare you for your mission, we have arranged this briefing for you.There is an underground sewer that will allow you to enter the castle'scellars unnoticed by the guards patrolling the area. The first level willtake place in the sewer system, and the second and third levels you will haveto work your way through are the basement floors of the castle. From there,you'll have to cover the miscellaneous barracks, cafeteria, storage areas,and other floors that make up the ancient castle. We currently have no dataat all on the eighth or ninth floors, except to say that the ninth floor ismost likely not used; it is a small floor that was added onto the top of thecastle after its completion. As soon as you secure the castle and stop theinfestation, get out of there as fast as you can and head home.Once again, your main mission goal is to find out who or what is killing offthe Nazi guards on station in this castle. Not that we want to help theNazis; we want to eliminate the possibility of them harnessing thedestructive forces you'll be seeking and using them against the Allies. Goodluck, B.J.!EPISODE THREE: Hitler's Hideout-------------------------------As the German troops in Russia are pushed further and further back and theAllies make one strategic strike after another, it has finally become clearto Adolf Hitler that the Third Reich has but a little time left. Unable toaccept failure, Hitler, driven insane, retreats to the lower levels of hisunderground bunker in Berlin, surrounding himself with hundreds of Nazisoldiers. From there he continues to use increasingly desperate tactics towage the second World War.Only recently, the Allies intercepted coded information as to the whereaboutsof Hitler's titanic bunker. Having cracked the code, we've decided to send inone man to attempt what even Hitler's own generals could not do: eliminatethe FŸhrer. Captain Blazkowicz, we've selected you from the list of our bestsoldiers for the job; your last few espionage missions were entirelysuccessful, and if anyone can complete this seemingly impossible task, wethink it's you.Hitler's bunker is quite possibly the most heavily guarded structure in theworld right now. If you're going to make it in and out of there alive, you'llhave to keep your wits about you, and your firearm in hand at all times!You'll be entering the bunker from the disguised ground-level entrance, andproceeding down through the lower levels. This is going to be a toughmission, Blazkowicz. Fight hard out there.THE NOCTURNAL MISSIONS: Episodes 4-6EPISODE FOUR: Subterranean Terror	---------------------------------Corporal Blazkowicz, you've been called here today because we believe you'rethe best man for our latest espionage mission. Intelligence reports that theyhave found the location of Otto Giftmacher's headquarters. Otto is thedesigner of the Nazis' new chemical warfare unit. He and his "creations" posea large threat to the rest of the outside world. It's imperative that youinfiltrate his headquarters and take him out before he can put his diabolicalweapons into action.However, Giftmacher isn't the only one behind the chemical warfare unit.There are two other Nazis who are crucial to the implementation of theselatest plans: Gretel Grosse and General Fettgesicht. Once you eliminate OttoGiftmacher, look around and see if you can discover where his other twocohorts are basing their operations. Get back to us with the details. Goodluck!EPISODE FIVE: Bite the Bullet-----------------------------Having discovered the whereabouts of Gretel Grosse, overseer of the plantthat manufactures the bomb casings for Giftmacher's chemical weapons, you(B.J. Blazkowicz) head for the office complex adjacent to the plant, whereGretel has her main base of operations. If you can take her out and bring themanufacture of the weapon casings to a grinding halt, the Allies will be butone step away from putting down the Nazis' chemical weapons plot -- and thatstep is the elimination of the supreme commander, General Fettgesicht!EPISODE SIX: The Command Bunker-------------------------------With Gretel Grosse dead, the General realizes his plans are all but foiled.Outfitting his impregnable command bunker with a heavy-duty assortment ofcrack troops and Himmler's SS, the General plans to prepare the prototypechemical weapons he keeps in his bunker and launch them against AlliedForces. It is imperative that you, B.J., get in there and liquidate themadman before he wreaks one helluva messy brand of havoc on the population ofearth.This will be your most difficult mission to date, Blazkowicz. You'll befacing more than a thousand Nazi troops, all fighting for their beliefs inyour very face! If you can survive the insane amounts of guards in the bunker,you still have to take on General Fettgesicht, who has armed himself with achaingun and a Rocket Propelled Grenade launcher especially for your visit!Grit your teeth and slam that pistol clip home -- you're in for the fight ofyour life!Your Weapons: An Inside Look----------------------------* Weapon #2: Walther Pistole 38 (P38)The replacement for the P08 (Luger) handgun was the Pistole 38, or P38,manufactured by Walther. This was a more rugged hand-gun and at 2.1lb heavierthan the P08. It also had an eight-round box magazine and fired its 9mmparabellum ammunition with a muzzle velocity comparable to that of the P08.It was a sturdy and highly popular weapon.* Weapon #3: MP40 Submachine Gun (SMG)The MP40 was an improved version of the MP38, which utilized cheapermanufacturing methods. Like the MP38, it was a 9mm calibre submachine gunwith a 32-round box magazine feeding from underneath the weapon. It weighed8.75lb and had a cyclic rate of fire of around 500rpm. Although a few earlymodels did have a wooden stock, the vast majority featured a collapsiblemetal stock.* Weapon #4: MG34 GPMGThis versatile, belt-fed 7.92mm machine gun weighed just over 26.5lb andfired at a rate of 900rpm, with a muzzle velocity of 726mps (2500fps).Generally fitted with a bipod, it could also be mounted on a heavy tripod forthe sustained fire role, and an anti-aircraft mount was also available. Likemost weapons dating from pre-war days, it was exceptionally well made, albeitrather expensive to produce.Enjoy the Game!If you have a question or a comment, send e-mail to B.J. Rowan at:bandit@coldmail.com