

                                Wolfenstien 4

                        Gods of the Ethereal Reality

                "Now is the time for judgement."

                "Let his trial be swift and fair."

                "It is the period for everything to be remade. The earth 
                 shall tremble. The seas shall boil. The rains shall fall 
                 endlessly from Heaven."

                "And he must pay for his sins."

        The date: March 25th, 1947.   Two years after the great B.J. had 
cleansed the world of Nazi rule. Now his worst nightmare has come to pass.
        As B.J. laid his head down to sleep, four demons materalized before 
him. The ground below his bed bagan to shake as the souls of those he had
killed pushed up the wood panels, cursing every second about the pain B.J. 
had created for them. These four demons informed B.J. that it was time for   
judgement. Although the killing spree he taken part in 2 years prior to was
considered heroic, it was also very sinful in the eyes of God. He had killed
not out of loyality to his country, but for personal satisfaction. Now he 
must pay for his sins in the worst way possible.
        As they informed him of his unforgiven wrongs, B.J. found his eyes
to be getting heavy. As he wandered off into dreamland, he could hear the 
demons informing him about his fate.
 
                "You must survive a world where the illogical becomes the
                 logical. Where reality seems only unreal."

                "You must survive your worst nightmare."

                "You must survive your past."

                "And you must survive until the sun rises tommorow. Only 
                 then will you be forgiven."

        As his eyes close deeper, his surroundings begin to come into shape.
He was back; he was once again stuck in Nazi rule. He had to live the killing
spree once again. This was his test.
        But knowing this was a dreamworld, he must be prepared for the
unexpected. Everytime he grows closer to the deepest sleep period, things 
would change. The world would be different. As all people spend the night
going through periods of  sleep -from light sleep to REM, then back 
up- the world B.J. inhabited would shift from what he knew to be 
reality to fantasy, and back again.
        This is his fate....as chosen by God.           
        




