The Hunt for von Hauer

Halp! The world is in danger again! Evil Alndon von Hauer took over a castle and 
is gathering an army of mindless mutants in his secret bunker! You must stop him 
before his stupid army becomes too large!

Features:
An ENEMY BLOCKING CODE! (guest appearance)
Custom FLOOR AND CEILING COLOURS!
A NEW ENEMY - Alndon von Hauer!
Several WALLS taken from a texture set!
One COMPLETELY NEW WALL!
Three MODIFIED SPRITES!
And five new, measly levels.

OK, so this is no ordinary mod. This is a joke mod. The whole premise of this mod 
is a joke. It also has a hidden in-game joke somewhere... you must just use supernatural 
powers to find it. Easy. 

Well, although this is a joke mod, I did try to make the five new levels at least 
decent. These are no joke. Also, the new walls (except the completely new one) were 
ones which I liked the most. Overall, the gameplay will be similar to original Wolfenstein, 
of course with my level designing style, plus a few graphics changes. The list of 
"features" above sums up all new things. You'll notice more details while playing. 
All new levels are on Episode 1. I hope you'll enjoy this oddity at least a bit. 
If not, well, I had no real hopes for this anyway!

Included are graphic files, map files and the exe. All other files will be needed 
from your copy of Wolfenstein 3D.

Can't find the modified sprites and the completely new wall? Well, these are a part 
of this stupid hidden joke which I mentioned. It's really easy to find.

Credit list:
Megabyte - for creating the sprites of Alndon von Hauer, playtesting my maps and 
providing par times. This was a lot of help!
ronwolf1705 - for making the exe file, which I'd never be able to do myself. Thanks!

Giorgio - I took the new walls from his set of excellent textures.
Nexion - for being present when the idea of this mod came to me. If I remember correctly, 
that is.
Schabbs - for putting this on the Dome (I hope).
Everyone else - just in case.
Spiders living in my house - for being an inspiration and scaring me regularly.

Serpens