Project Ironstone - Uncompleted Version - Source Code and Game - Public Domain Release

Hi, this is all the uncompleted "Project Ironstone" game. I have started this project
about a year ago but I went bored of this game and I decided to release this uncompleted
version of my game to the public because I didn't want this work to go waste.

Oh yes, you may want to know what will happen to this in the future. Well, I probably 
won't do anything to the current game. I have various plans to maybe finish it in the future.
BUT, this is in the future.

This game contain a LOTS of graphics and sounds from various sources like Projekt Vertilgung
and Spear Ressurection. All of this has been planed to be changed in the full version but
since I didn't finish the project, I've leave all this in the project.

About the source code now. The source code compiled perfectly with Borland C++ 3.1
before it was uploaded. I have not tried it with BC++ 3.0. AND the source code is
pretty messy and not very commented.

For the Mapedit definitions files, they are messy too but you should not have any troubles
to do your maps.

There is some things in the game you can enable or disable like the Lightning Effect
(when you walk under a light it glow yellow like if you were really under the light)
you have to press on "F" and for the crosshair, you have to press on "X".

As for the game, the cheat code is "AB1" to have too weapons and ammo and the rest of the
stuff, and there is a cheat to warp to next level and this cheat is "WARP".

A last thing, you can use all this source code as a base for create your own add-on or
you can only take some parts of the source code for add it in your project and if you do
this please leave my name in the credits.

Please do NOT send your questions to iD Software, Apogee Software, GT
Software, Activision, FormGen or any other company/retail store that sells
Wolfenstein and/or Spear of Destiny. They won't give support on modified
products, and believe me, this IS a fu**ing modified product!

However, you CAN ask questions about this code to me, Alex at alexbrosseau@yahoo.ca.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alexandre Brosseau
Creator of Project Ironstone
alexbrosseau@yahoo.ca
http://www.wolf3dmaster.cjb.net/