Thank you for downloading The Cold War, my 3rd Wolfenstein addon, this is a sequal 
to End
of The Third Riech my first Wolfenstein addon, but it's inspired by and based around 
Triston's or Parifriction's 
Final Solution, so a big part of credit goes to Triston or Parifriction for the creation 
of this mod. You may even
think it's a rip off of The Final Solution twisted into what this mod is, especially 
the storyline. In 2007 the idea behind this 
mod was to be inspired by Final Solution but with better levels, which I hoped to 
be more extensive, but also to twist
the storyline, invent a way for this mod to take place after my first mod End of 
the Third Riech. I hope I have succeded,
but at least if anything, like all my Wolfenstein mods, creating it was worth my 
time, unfortunatly I slipped back with creating
 the levels, the levels may not be as good as in my previous mods, End of The Third 
Riech and The Spear. The levels may not 
be very extensive at times, I did my best to improve any levels that needed improving 
but I hope it's not the worst Wolfenstein
mod in a long time. If you like it good, if you don't like it it doesn't matter, 
don't play it, just forget about it.   


Storyline
1946 
A year after you BJ The One Man Army put an end to The Third Riech, you not only 
killed Adolf
Hitler and all his Nazi's, you also found Dr Scabb's giant layer, his
laboratory where he performs his twisted experiments. You also
defeated all his mutants and found his mutant habitat Caverns of
the unknown to find a Hitler mutant!! which you managed kill too!! yes you are one 
true
legend!!!. But before that you also managed to retrieve The Spear from the hands

of Hitler out of Castle Numenberg which let to your success so far.
But now as if in one second we go back in time, it's 1945 again!!!! bizzarely your 

memory is not wiped though, you can still remember 1945 the first time round, so 
can the Allies.
This is so strange, thougt the Allies, how the hell is it possible? we won't know 
what exactly happened
yet, so first we must send BJ out to bring an End to The Third Riech once again and 
we will see
where we go from there. But your mission BJ will take place in a different location, 
it looks like
the Nazi's were in a different facility, this facility is a series of castles connected 
by a series of tunnels. 
The main part of this instalation is a fortress called Festung Adler. It's also called 
The Eagle's Nest because it's
so high you have to be an eagle to reach it. It lies 3000 meatres above sea level. 
Theres no connection with the valleys
below it, making it the perfect location for arranging secret operations. The castles 
within this network are interconnected 
by a series of tunnels. This seems like a better facility than where the fight took 
place last time in 1945, you must first enter
Castle Hasslehoff via the first tunnel access, good luck BJ if you make it out alive 
you will have something to later
tell your grandkids.



Level names

Level 1 Tunnel 1
You must go through a slimmy tunnel, the only to enter Castle Hasslehoff.

Levels 2 - 5 Castle Hasslehoff
You begin your mission in an old prussian castle called Hasslehoff, the first castle 
in this instalation of networks.
Some parts of it may be used for storage of Scabb's equipment. On level 5 you will 
fight your first boss called Werner Gelassen, he 
may remind you of a boss you perviously fought in Castle Numenberg on your quest 
for the spear but he's a Gestapo General. 

Level 6 Tunnel 2

Levels 7 - 10 Festung Adler
You finally reached The Eagle's Nest, it lies at the very top of a mountain which 
makes it unaccessible from the valley below.
This is the main part of the installation for the operation, it is very high on security 
and can be well guarded at times. Level 10 you will 
face your first Ubermutant.

Level 11 Tunnel 3

Levels 12 - 15 Felsebdam Dungeon
The cold wind howells in your ears as you enter Felsebdam Dungeon, part of Fetung 
Adler. Felsebdam built in 1643 officiates as a dungeon
for catching spies, now used for capturing prisners that are part of Scabb's twisted 
experiment. No wonder this place smells like death,
blood, sweat and tears part of the main smell. On level 15 you will encounter a surprise 
visit with Adolf Hitler himself, why would he live 
in a dungeon?

Level 16 Tunnel 4

Levels 17 - 20 Festung office
At the very top of The Eagle's Nest is a secret office facility, you have change 
of more civillised scenery before taking 
a tunnel to your last part of the installation, Festung office is where all the paperwork 
is archived, also a place where
secret conferences take place. On level 20 you will have to fight what looks like 
Otto Giftmatcher but dressed in blueish
greenish instead of white, mabye it is Otto, afterall time has turned back and altered 
the course of future events. Be carefull 
of his rocket launcher!!

Level 21 Tunnel 5

Levels 22 - 30 Luftberg bunker
After you take the elevater from the tunnel, you end up in Luftberg bunker, you have 
reached Scabb's laberatorys,
where you will have to fight alot of mutants, there are also some unfinished mutans 
lying on operating
tables, at mid point on level 25 you will have to fight another Ubermutant, on level 
30 you willface Dr Scabb's himself.
If you kill Dr Scabb's you will have brought the cold war to an end once again.

Secret levels
In the early part of the the installation are 2 secret levels that are accessed within 
2 of the early levels.

Super Secret levels
Hidden on the final level is access to a series of Super Secret levels, but if you 
fing the first Super Secret level
your mission has only just started, you will have to get through all the Super Secret 
levels to end the game, but don't worry, 
access to the next Super Secret level is never hidden. You have 2 choices on level 
30, escape early, or be a real hero and 
accept your Super Secret mission.







The Cold War features
41 seamless levels ( 30 normal levels, 2 secret levels and 9 super secret levels 
)
A mix of imported and original vswap graphics and sounds
Some new music imported.
25 ammo crate added.
Landmines.
Changed ceiling colours.
Changed menu and screen background colours.
Help art re enabled.
Some new and modified VGA graphics.
New demos recorded.


Some bugs and errors
There are several bugs and errors in this mod, one error is inorrect graphics in 
the read this, I don't 
know what went wrong but if some text is rendered unreadable then everything is explained 
in this document.
The landmines replaced the golden cross but they render you unable to get 100% treasure, 
not sure if that's
just if you avoid landmines.
There may be other bugs that I'm unaware of but those are the known errors.



Credits and acknolodgements
First off I would like to thank id software for Wolfenstein 3D and Spear of destiny, 
Form Gen corp for
the 2 Spear mission packs.
Secondly I would like to thank id software for the relese of the Wolfenstein Source 
code, Florian Stohr for Floe edit, Chaos
software for Chaos edit.
I would now like to credit other people for use of their resources used in this mod 
starting with Triston or Parfriction for Final Solution,
it's storyline as a base for this mod's storyline, also use of vswap graphics and 
sounds from Final Solution, id software for use of 
original Wolfenstein and Spear vswap graphics and sounds, music, Form Gen corp for 
use of vswap graphics from Spear mission packs,
use of the grey x wall, check tiles credit goes to whoever designed them, there are 
also a few wall textures that I designed namely 
the blue stripped wood pannel, the grey stripped wood pannel from End of The Third 
Riech, plus mabye a few wall textures
I recoloured. 
People like Reactor for use if music from the IMF pack, MCS and Areyep for use of 
music from End of Destiny, possibly also for ripping 
music from Blake Stone ans Planet Srtike, any other music, thanks to whoever converted 
it to IMF format.

I would now like to thank some people for Source code tutorials, MCS and Areeyep 
mainly for the seamless 
level shortcut, Luke Strauman, Martin Kryseic and anyone who posted source code totorials 
on the Wolfenstein Dome, Paal Olstad.
Without you guys many of the source code tutorials in this mod wouldn't have been 
possible.

Terms of fair use
You may distribute this mod as freeware for non profit use as long as it's intact 
and unaltered, you may use this mod as a base for 
your own mod, you may use resources from this mod for your own mod, vswap graphics, 
sounds that's fine by me ( credits
mentioned as above ), you may also use the levels in this mod for your own mod. 



More Wolfenstein mods from Penguindog55
And if you like The Cold War, why not try my other mods, 1945 End of The Third Riech, 
60 action packed levels,
bring down the Third Riech and stop Scabb's twisted experiment, The Spear, 30 tough 
levels, you have to 
make your way to the top of castle Nuremberg and rescue The Spear so that you can 
put an end 
to The Third Reich.
Also look out for other future Wolfenstein mods I may relese, my next mod is going 
to be Quest for the unknown,
now you have ended it all for the 2nd time you now have to go on a quest to find 
the unknown that may have
been behind the time travel.






   