                         Assassinate Uwe Grosse.

Welcome to assassinate final version 1.2.

Created by Bernt "Nova" Hansen.

First of all thanks to the unknown person who made the "lost episodes" graphic
avaliable in the set, lost-ep.zip go grab it it's worth it. I modified it a
bit with some different wall textures.
Also thanks to Zach Higgins, for his Project Verteilgung. I use 1
frame of his new officer and modified it a bit, to make Pierre. Much
better than the old one i made.


Here comes a description of some of the levels.

Level 1.  There's no need to get frustrated because you can't find the secret
          elevator, i didn't include it. Instead you're playing the levels in
          a consecutive order, making level 9 the secret level and level 10
          the boss level.
          There are only dogs and guards in this level, as in the first level
          of the shareware set. I think it's a nice starting level.

Level 5. This level is quite small, the only problem you've got is to find
         the silver key.

Level 8. All things are included here, some action, a bit of puzzle solving
         and a mini-maze to enter.

Level 9. This is the secret level, plenty of angry enemies are waiting to 
         greet you with a hail of bullets. Also Leo Grosse, Uwe's twin
         brother is there somewhere.

Level 10. I had a problem with "flashing screen borders". I already had a 1 
          block thick perimeter walls but it didn't solve the problem. Then i 
          remembered what Warren Buss, had recommended make the perimeter 
          walls 2 blocks thick. Now the level works smoothly.

Oh nearly forgot to tell, that i reenabled an old cheatcode without using the
sourcecode. What cheatcode it is, you'll have to find out yourself. Ok i'll be
nice use TAB + N to enable the "no clipping" cheat. It really helped me out 
when i had to check out the different levels, for some small changes such as 
the moving guards pattern.

The levels are designed to be played on the hardest difficulty setting. They
are a bit harder to complete than the original sw set, yet they aren't 
impossible to complete.

Any comments about this set are as always welcome, you can email me at :
bernt (at) fyn13.dk

Upcoming projects :

Ubermensch : 5 levels or perhaps more for Spear of Destiny.
Fearwolf : 10 tribute levels for episode 5.