
>>THIS IS THE TEST VERSION OF "DEAD WORLD RISING", NOT THE FINAL VERSION.  THERE 
ARE ONLY TWO LEVELS, AND IT CUTS OFF AFTER THE SECOND ONE.  REPEAT, THIS IS ONLY 
A DEMO!<<

"Dead World Rising" A new "DOOM" Adventure
A Wolfenstein 3-D Mod using the "Final Solution" Version 3.0
Using content from "WolfenDoom" and "TRAGEDY AT ISTANBUL III- EVIL IN IRON: Special 
'DOOM' Version"

Mod by R. DuHamel (wasabi_zero2002 (at) yahoo.ca)
"Final Solution"(Ver.1.0, 2.0, 3.0) by Tristan [NAME REDACTED] (tvanputten (at) yahoo.com)

"Wolfendoom" by AReyeP (Steve Walley) (areyep (at) iaa.com.au)
"TRAGEDY AT ISTANBUL III- EVIL IN IRON: Special 'DOOM' Version"  By John Bucksnort 
(john_bucksnort (at) yahoo.com)

BEFORE YOU PLAY:  I chose "The Final Solution" as the platform to build my mod on, 
as it had many interesting features that I couldn't find in any other port of "Wolfenstein" 
or "Spear of Destiny".  I congratulate Mr. [NAME REDACTED] for his excellent work on "The 
Final Solution", and I hope he don't mind me using it.  I also wish to congratulate 
AReyep for his work on "Wolfendoom".  It was a great experience, and felt true to 
DOOM's nature.  Finally, to Mr. Bucksnort.  The Special DOOM Edition of your "Evil 
In Iron" was every bit as good as "Wolfendoom" (I thought), and also true to DOOM 
itself, a game of which I am a major fan of.  Many things I borrowed and such, because 
I've only recently gotten into modding, and haven't yet got the hang of editing source 
codes (I'm only 15, I'm working on it!).  I have put what games I borrowed DOOM content 
from (and the game used for the base of the mod), but if you play this game, and 
see something that you yourself have created (please be honest), and you are not 
listed, please feel free to e-mail me at wasabi_zero2002yahoo .ca, and tell me.  
I will try my best to see that you have credit for it.  And please enjoy the game!


 -R. DuHamel (The Great Wasabi!) 

THE STORY-

	There you were, fresh out of high school, looking for an exciting, and yet practical 
job.  A friend jokes to you about joining the military.  You briefly consider it, 
but the idea is quickly pushed aside for much more attainable goals.

	Then it happened.  By chance, or simply an act of fate, you just happened to notice 
an advertisement near your apartment.  

	     JOIN THE SPACE MARINES!  WE WANT YOU!

	That's it!  You'd always heard how great the Space Marines were, and of all the 
cool things they always got to do.  You finally decide to sign up.  Why not?  Go 
places for free, be fed and clothed, and get rich quick.  And all you have to do 
is enlist part time.  There's no wars or problems to worry about, all you have to 
do is take it easy.  Or so you thought.

	Five gruelling months later, your training is done.  They throw a uniform on you, 
slap an SMG in your hand, and before you know it, you find yourself being put on 
the first shuttle to the remote space colony LR-304, located on the recently terra-formed 
planet Mars.  You don't even get a chance to tell your folks good-bye.  On the trip 
there, you overhear what's going on:  supposedly there have been some odd goings-on 
at LR-304.  You hear something about "infestation", but think nothing of it.  You 
do remember something about the base being operated by UAC, that aerospace company. 
 Was it United Aerospace Company?  Or Corparation?  It quickly leaves your mind. 
  It's probably just a false alarm.  There couldn't REALLY be anything wrong, could 
there? 

	Days later (Boy that was sure quick!), the shuttle lands at  LR-304, and there is 
a rude awakening.  The second the airlock opens, the alarm sounds.  The other Marines 
go into a panic, and they all shove off their shoulder restraints, grab their guns, 
and bolt into the colony entrance at the order of the sergeant.  Except you.  Your 
shoulder restraints jam, and you find yourself trapped in your seat.  No one takes 
notice of you, and quickly you are alone on the shuttle.  About a half-hour later, 
you manage to pry the restraints off with the butt of your rifle.  The rifle cracks 
in your hand, and you discover you've broken part of the firing mechanism.  It's 
totally useless now.  You swear you'll kill the idiot who made those damn shoulder 
restraints.   You rush out the join your comrades, when you see a horrifying sight. 
 All of your comrades are dead.  You see dozens of dead colonists, and upon examining 
them closer, you realize they've been dead for weeks.  No one is left except you. 
 You take back what you said about killing the idiot who made the shoulder restraints. 
 He (or she) saved your life.  For the time being at least.

	Well, here you are.  A Space Marine.  Alone in a place you've never heard of, and 
know nothing about.  As you turn to go back to the shuttle, the door inexplicably 
closes.  You try to open it, but the wiring for the button to open it is shot. You 
pull out your pistol, and brace yourself.  You'll just have to get through this damn 
hell-hole, and whatever is here is going to get a face full of lead if they decide 
to show their ugly faces.  You have no idea what you are doing, but what the hell. 
 It can't be much worse than sitting around starving to death before anyone realizes 
something's gone terribly wrong.  Right?!  Nothing could be that terrible...

	Good luck.  Believe me, you'll need it.    

YOUR ARSENAL-

	You only have your pistol and your bloody bare hands to start with, but some other 
weapons appear that will definitely help you.  Here's a complete list of your weapons.


#1-Fists:  You're advised not to use this is if you can.  It'll take out weak enemies, 
but others it won't even scratch.  If this is your last resort, you're in BIG trouble.


#2-Pistol:  Your pistol is much better than the fist, but still isn't that great. 
 

#3-SMG (Sub-Machine Gun):  You may find this is the weapon you might use most.  It's 
pretty good on ammo, and packs a punch. It pops up quite often.

#4-PCU (Plasma Conversion Unit) Rifle:  An energy rifle that will make short work 
of almost any enemy.  It works by converting conventional ammunition into quick bursts 
of plasma.  This weapon is the final version of the one UAC was eveloping in "Wolfendoom" 
(Nod to AReyeP!).   It has become standard issue for all Space Marines.  However, 
it ploughs through ammo very rapidly.  Be warned; this weapon may jam and disappear 
for no reason if you keep firing it too much.  If it does, you'll just have to find 
it again...

#5-Chaingun:  Ah, yes.  Your good friend from DOOM.  It will shred any enemy, and 
when you have it, it just makes you feel so invincible.  For added effect, when firing 
it, laugh maniacally.  HAHAHAHA!!!! Er, sorry.  Unfortunately, continuous repeated 
firing of this weapon will cause it to vanish like the HA Rifle.

YOUR PICKUPS-

	Of course, the Space Marines and the colonists left behind plenty of ammunition 
and items before they met a fateful end.  Here are the ones you'll find:

Blue Vial (Health Bonus)-  In DOOM, they gave you 1 health, and pushed the normal 
100 health beyond 100.  In "Dead World Rising", each restores 4 health, and they 
will push your normal HP (Health Points) beyond the normal 100 percent.  You have 
a max HP of 200.

Stimpack-  A small package with a red cross.  It contains steroids that give you 
a quick boost of health.  Each one restores 10 health.

MedPack-  A large package that has straps on the front of it, and a big red cross. 
 Each one of these babies restores 25 health.

Armour Vest-  These will protect you from enemy shots, but they will only withstand 
a few hits.  They're the blue vests.  When you get hit after picking up one of these, 
you may notice that your health jumps up.

Ammo Clip-  If you find one just lying around, these give you 8 shots.  If you collect 
one from a downed foe, they only replenish 4 ammo.  You have a max ammo count of 
200.

Ammo Box-  Looks like the MedPack, but has a picture of a bullet on it.  Gives 25 
bullets.

1Up-  You'll know these when you see them, because they say '1Up' right on them. 
 They're blue.  Yeah, that's them.

"Treasure"-  There is no treasure in the traditional sense.  But there is items that 
you can collect of value that give points, but they're mainly valuable Space Marine 
equipment that lays scattered around the facilities at LR-304.  Here are some of 
the things you should look for:

Armour Helmet-  It gave you 1% armour in DOOM.  It now gives you 100 points.

Light-Amplification Goggles- In DOOM, they let you see perfectly in darkened places. 
 They now provide you with 500 points.

