     
                               BAR ROOM BLITZ V

                         (A Demon in the High Command)

         DREAM:  You are standing on a beach that is infinity miles long, 
     staring into an ocean that is infinity times bluer than any other 
     ocean you've ever seen.  Entwined in your arm is supermodel Christy 
     Milan.  You watch the sunset melt in the infinately distant horizon 
     as Christy slowly begins to tear the clothing off of your body...

         REALITY:  You are sitting at your beat up desk, tucked away 
     somewhere within in the bowels of the Terran buracracy.  It is three 
     in the morning.  Your face is lying in a heap of half-filled 
     investigation reports and candy bar wrappers.  A puddle of drool is 
     busily building on a copy of your 'Mission Objectives': To collect 
     data on Wizard's activities and seek out any co-conspirators.  The 
     hideous sound of your snoring crackles through the dead air in the 
     room.
         Suddenly the scene is shattered as Victor Parelli, the 
     investigative processor bursts into the room, gasping for air.  "Wake 
     up!" he half rasps, half yells.
         Your mind slowly slips into reality and kicks into first gear.  
     "Who... Wha... Huh?"  You sit up and rub at your eyes.  Your mouth 
     tastes like an old shoe.
         "They're coming man, hurry up!  Get outta here!"  Victor screams.  
         Not fully comprehending the situation, you grab your trusty 
     handgun and get to your feet.  Behind Victor, the door bursts open 
     and the chatter of gunfire fills your ears.  Victor's chest explodes 
     in a red mist as his remains flop onto the floor.  Instinctively, you 
     jerk the weapon to chest level and repeatedly pull back on the 
     trigger.  Three forms in the doorway twitch and collapse on the 
     ground.  Adrenaline charged, you run from the room.
         Another pair of intruders collide with you in the hallway.  You 
     cleanly wipe the astonished look off of their faces with two well 
     placed bullets.  As you continue down the corridor, a stray thought 
     slams through your mind.  'Why are they after me?!'
         Your churning brain is just starting to function properly when 
     your run is cut short by a wall of armor-clad troopers, each toting a 
     KS-90 Plasma Rifle.  Gunfire erupts around you and you make all speed 
     back to where you came from.  As you hit the next intersection, 
     another enemy trio pops out from the left, causing you to go right.  
     The same thing happens at every fork in the hallways.  As more 
     troopers appear, and more bullets strike the walls around you, you 
     realize that they are herding you somewhere.
         More men...
         More gunfire...
         Eventually, you're down farther into the complex than you've 
     ever been.  Massive computers and technical equipment line the walls 
     of every room you enter.  Finally, you come to a dead end.  A 15 foot 
     high metal wall blocks your path.  Behind you, someone yells, "Ha, 
     we've got you now!"  You turn, ready to fight, just as a foot thick 
     blast door slams shut in front of you.
         "What's going on here!", you scream, kicking at the door.  
     Suddenly there is a loud 'CHUNG!' sound, as if some enormous 
     machinery is being powered up.  A low whining sound begins to emanate 
     from the floor, and a white light appears in the ceiling.  At a 
     geometric rate, the light and sound increase until you are nearly 
     blind and deaf.  A few moments later, there is a monumental popping 

     sound, and then nothing.
         When your senses return to normal, the first thing that tells you 
     something is amiss, is the gaping hole to your right.  Before you can 
     investigate, waves of sound tear through the room, actually pushing 
     against you body with their force.  Gargatuan walls appear in the 
     distance, and advance toward you at impossible speeds.  Before your 
     macho-gland can kick in and allow you to kill yourself, your 
     instincts of self preservation take control, and you dive head-first 
     down the seemingly bottomless hole nearby.  After falling for at 
     least a few hundred feet, you strike a circular barrier of pure 
     energy and your entire body explodes into a trillion-billion sub-
     atomic particles...

                                      ***

         A fully-armored and weapon laiden soldier announced his entrance 
     to the general's chambers with more clanking and clunking then a 1952 
     VW Beetle with 19 Gadzillion miles on it.  The soldier slapped his 
     hand on the intercom button.  "Elite Guard SV-091 ready for de-
     briefing, sir!"  After a moment, a yellow light blinked on above a 
     set of heavy wooden doors and then slowly swung open.
         "Please come in," came a voice from inside.  Elite Guard SV-091 
     thudded his way into the office.  The room was massive, almost as 
     impressive as the man who sat expectantly at the desk, tapping his 
     fingers impatiently... Make that, five of his fingers...  Where the 
     man's other arm should have been was an elaborate system of radar and 
     scanners-specially turned to read straight to his brain.  A gold 
     nameplate showed the man to be General Robert 'Demon' Friesel.  Demon 
     leaned forward.  "Report!"
         "Sir, we have successfully completed phase one of operation 
     Clean-Sweep.  The target has been miniaturized."
         The general nodded.  "And what of phase two?"
         The soldier tried to keep his cool but failed.  "Phase two has, 
     er, failed, sir!"
         Demon sprung to his feet and thundered across the floor.  "Phase 
     two has WHAT?!"
         The soldier took a step backwards.  "S...S...sir, he escaped into 
     one of the floor sensors before he could be terminated."
         Demon's face began to turn the same shade of red as his armored 
     suit.  "Do you know what that means?!  That maniac is loose in our 
     computer system!  He can learn anything!  Damn you!"  Enraged, Demon 
     drive his good arm straight through the soldier's face.  A rubbery, 
     gray brain bounced off of the door and hit the ground with a splat.  
     Shaking off the bits of flesh, Demon grabbed a radio communicator 
     from the desk top.
         "Attention firing crew.  Operation Clean-Sweep is dirty.  Repeat, 
     Clean-Sweep is dirty.  Redirect miniaturizer to bar room 986101A, 
     full strength."
         "Yes sir!" came a voice from the other line.  A dead static 
     filled the room as Demon returned to his chair.  With an evil grin 
     he pulled a large control box from the desk.  "I'll get you, you 
     bastard.  I'll get you!"
         Demon pressed a large green button on the face of the control box 
     and his body vanished in a cloud of electrons, instantly shrunk and 
     transported into the heart of the computer.

                                      ***


         Bar room 986101A was a bustling riot of activity, well into its 
     daily bout of total pandemonium.  Bodies lay strewn about the floor, 
     beheaded, disemboweled, or impaled with cows.  Explosions filled the 
     area with such intensity that the air itself seemed to be aflame.  
     Eventually, the carnage level dropped, and the death screams slowed 
     to one a minute.  Noting this, the bouncer strolled over the the 
     baracaded entrance and tore it out of the walls, allowing hundreds of 
     waiting patrons to rush inside.
         The incredible melee resumed... but only for a moment.
         Just seconds after the first nose was splattered across someone's 
     face, a blinding light filled the entire room.  The drunken brawlers 
     paid no heed as they were all shrunk down to five microns in size, 
     and sucked in the inner works of the central computer hookup.
         From somewhere within the confusion, someone called out, "Hey, 
     we're inside the computer!"  Gradually, an awed silence settled over 
     the crowd.
         "Cool," somebody finally said, and then picked up a table and 
     slung in across the room.  The scene exploded into random violence 
     once again.
     
                                      ***

         Elsewhere in the confines of the computer, your mind slowly 
     returns to a functioning level.  Staggering to your feet, the sounds 
     to death and destruction reach you.  Ignoring this, you divert your 
     attention to the blinking mini-comp around your wrist.  You activate 
     the monitor.  "Speak to me," you say, shaking your head furiously to 
     get the flying spheres out of your eyes.  Tandith Nyler, your 
     beautiful research assistant, appears on the small screen.
         "I don't have much time," she says.  "General Friesel has 
     miniaturized an entire bar room and they're in the system with you!  
     If you can, you've gotta fight your way back to the miniaturizing 
     room so that the effects can be reversed.  To make things even more 
     difficult, sensors show that the general himself is in there, so you 
     know what to do with him.  I'll have the enlargement process set up 
     within an hour.  Tandy out."
         With the last shreds of sleep tumbling out of your mind, you slam 
     a fresh clip of ammo into your pistol and take off down a seemingly 
     endless corridor...
         ...And so your newest adventure begins...
