
                               Bar Room Blitz VI

        Total Annihalation, Random Destruction, and Senseless Violence
            (and other such quality degradation of family values!)


         A nightmare of light and sound rip through your head with 
     unrelenting force.  When the attack finally stops, you have returned 
     to your normal size.  The shield doors slowly open and you step 
     gratefully out of the miniaturizer.  Tandith Nyler is standing there,
     holding a remote operating device for the machine.  With the subtlety
     of a rhinocerous, you tear the device from her hands, and throw it on
     the floor.
         Tandith smiles for a moment, but then grabs your arm and leads you 
     out of the room.  "Come on," she says, "we don't have time for that!"  
     Following her lead, you travel to yet another unknown area of the 
     bar.
         "A few minutes after you killed Demon, I picked up a remote 
     signal trying to get through to the general.  Since he was dead, the 
     signal was deflected away, and I was able to work with it.  According 
     to all of the data, it originated from somewhere back at the entrance 
     to the bar. But the interesting thing is that there is not a single 
     senior officer anywhere near that area, except for Admiral Marks."  
     Tandith paused.  "You don't think that..."
         With a scowl marring your features, you check your gun and 
     release the safety.  "I don't know what to think," you say.  "But I'm 
     gonna go have a little chat with the admiral."
         Tandith tries to keep up with you as you head for the nearest 
     elevator.  "Are you sure you should do that?  Every time you go to 
     chat, a lot of people wind up dead."
         You turn to her, smile evily, and continue onward.  Behind you, 
     she says, "Be careful!  The Bar has remodled itself since your last 
     visit up there, and there are lots of new levels!"
         You give a nod of thanks and enter the elevator.
         You and Admiral Marks are gonna have a little talk... even if it 
     kills him.
         ...And your adventures begin again...

