    

                            BAR ROOM BLITZ IV

                    (Death Incarnate: The Ultimate Evil)


        Gerald Borland gasped sharply when the knock on the door came.  
     Sounds were few and far between down in this area of the bar, roughly
     fifty miles from the original entrance.  Stories of strange creatures
     both beautiful and deadly were flying around the work camp.  Stories
     that would scare the living daylights out of the toughest marine.
        Brian Rhodes peeked around the doorway and Gerald waved him in.  
     The younger man approached his employer's desk.  "Sir?", he asked as
     he removed his hat from his head and wrung it between his hands, 
     "There's been another attack... Wright is dead."
        "Shit...", Gerald muttered.  "How many know?"
        Brian smashed his facial features together in thought, "Peters,
     Johann, Michaels, Wood... Christ, half of the evening shift."
        Gerald did some quick figuring in his head, as to how much it would
     take to cover this one up.  At a hundred dollars per worker, for a
     group of thirty men, he grudgingly decided he would have to let
     this one ride.  "Okay, where did this accident occur?"
        "East, about a kilometer.  We think we was off napping."
        "Then prepare a Rock for travel, we'll leave in five minutes."

                                    ***

        The Rock rumbled through the recently discovered rooms of the bar 
     at its maximum speed of ten kph, an agonizing speed to a civilian,
     but pleasant for a work crew.  The Rock vechiles were small, yet 
     lumbering things, custom built for the barroom construction crews as
     heavy-duty machines to roll over or through any obstacles.  The slow
     speeds were ideal for the foreman of a work party to get from point A
     to point B, and be able to survey charts and plans, while supervising
     any work efforts going on.  It also kept the workers from taking
     joyrides.  Men aren't eager to sneak a ride on a machine that can be
     outran by a modern wheelchair.
        Gerald Borland especially liked the long, slow trips, as it gave him
     a rare opportunity to relax, to think.  As his eyes scanned the passing
     mildew covered walls, he thought about the bar, its past, and his place
     in its chain of life.
        It is not known when the Bar came into existance.  Many simply 
     assume it has always existed, serving different races, at different 
     times, standing through the rise and fall of a thousand different
     civilizations.  Currently it was being overrun by an inquisitive race
     known as the Terrans.
        The Terrans, human beings if you like, were the first to discover
     the life force of the Bar, a small, well hidden machine which is simply
     referred to as, the Hologram Projector.  The projector created the Bar, 
     it's layout and form.  And although it so far has allowed the Terrans 
     to continue to re-decorate and design the interior, the projector 
     continues to build, to create.  That's where Gerald comes in.
        "Damn it!"
        In the background, a man swore violently to himself as he clamored
     back onto the Rock, which he had carelessly fallen off of.  He began
     to nurse a cut on his arm, as his co-workers taunted him playfully.
     Gerald smiled and returned to his thoughts.
        As the Terran Confederation continued to grow at incredible speeds,
     the need for a common resting place for interstellar traffic became
     larger.  As the original rooms of the Bar became more and more packed,
     work crews such as this were continually being sent down further
     into the uncharted regions of Bar.  Down past the occupied rooms, the
     hologram projector continued to produce new and intriguing work.  Rooms
     no bigger than a small closet could be set in rows, side by side, by 
     the hundreds.  Hallways often continued on for kilometers, leading to
     nothing.  The work crews were given the job of surveying the new
     territory, planning, and smashing doors and constructing walls, to make
     well designed barroom areas, to be filled as needed.  Gerald felt
     proud to be a part of some bigger game where his efforts could actually
     mean something.  His thoughts were interrupted.  "Hey boss, we're 
     here.", Brian Rhodes said quickly before jumping off the Rock.  Gerald
     followed.
        Gerald was led by Brian, first past a number of distraught workers 
     who were easily settled by a few firm words and commands, then through
     a number of progressively smaller rooms, grey stone walled, each one
     more dank and dark than the previous.  Finally they reached a solid,
     moss covered wall.  A few of the men who had been following them 
     muttered something and began tearing at the wall with some pick-axe 
     type of tool, like men who had recently been sentenced to hell and
     were looking for an early release.  "What's going on?" Gerald 
     questioned.
        Brian Rhodes scowled.  "We've gotta open the room back up.  Since we 
     found Wright, the damn projector has sealed the doorway up three 
     times."
        Gerald stared at the man in a slight state of shock. "The projector
     did what?!"
        "I swear it sir!  I've never of the thing going against our work
     before, but three times now we've torn that sucker apart, and three
     times, it's gone back up."
        For a while, silence filled the stale air, except for the occasional
     grunt of effort, or the 'chink!' of metal on rock.  "How do you know
     it was Wright?" Gerald inquired.
        "By the tattoo on his arm..." Brian began.
        Gerald cut him off, "What the hell was wrong with his face though?
     Never mind that, but why his arm?  The one on his left leg was much 
     bigger and distinct."
        "Problem was," Brian continued, "We couldn't find his left leg, or 
     his face either for that matter..."  He paused for a moment to let the 
     revulsion set in.  "Hell, it was only luck we found the tattoo. It was
     on a small piece of skin, connected to what musta been a muscle."
        "Wait a minute," Gerald said in a jumble, "What do mean you couldn't
     find it?"
        Brian looked his employer directly in the eye.  "Let me put it this
     way sir, they say that the human body is a complex thing full of a 
     thousand different parts.  I'm no expert, but it looks pretty damned
     similar once you've scattered it all over the floor.  Excuse me for a
     moment, I think I need some air."  Brian turned and left the room.
        After about ten minutes the first hole broke through.  The worker's
     pace quickened with renewed vigor at this, but there was still much to
     go.  Suddenly, the small portable communicator hanging from his belt 
     emitted a series of high pitched beeps, signalling an incoming 
     message.  He removed the communicator from his belt and opened it.
     Felix Potter's face appeared on the small, hi-res but green monochrome
     screen.  "Sir?" the young man said uneasily, "There's someone here to
     see you."
        Gerald scowled, "Was there something you weren't sure about in my
     orders?  I said, no one is to get in here!"  
        "Er... Yes, uh, yes sir." Felix stuttered.   Gerald turned the
     volume up to full as he heard a commotion building in the background
     with Felix. An unknown man's voice came booming over the communicator,
     enraged by the other's response.  "Listen here you little shit!  If
     you plan on keeping this job, then you stand aside right now, or I'll
     have the full force of the Terran government breathing down your 
     back!"  
        The was a dull thud and a long moment of static.  Felix Potter 
     reappeared, a spot of blood emerging from his mouth.  "Sir!" he nearly
     screamed, "He's coming your way!"
        Gerald quickly snapped off the communicator, "All right!" he called
     out to his workers, "We've got a government slimeball incoming!  Just
     keep working, and I'll handle it!"  A wave of consent sounded around 
     the room.  The minutes passed.
        Eventually, a man began to come into view, running though the 
     nearby rooms like an asteroid gone ballistic.  As he entered the room
     he slowed his pace to a quick trot and approached the foreman, Gerald.
     There was a quick burst of laughter from the crew as one of the men
     broke another hole in the wall, and lost his balance as his pick-axe
     tool sunk through.
        The government man extended his hand towards Gerald, "Admiral Jason
     Blalock, callsign Wizard, out of the Wing Commander Head Quarters."
        Gerald glanced at the hand but did not shake it.  "What the hell do
     you want?"
        The admiral shook his head slightly, and removed a bundle of 
     blueprints and design sheets.  He tossed them to the foreman.  "Order
     your men to stop digging, this area is off limits by order of the
     government.  These new plans devised by the officials should keep you
     busy... just not in this area."
        A large machine was brought in to pound thruogh the wall.  A huge 
     hole soon appeared.
        Gerald studied the blueprints for a moment.  "This is crap!" he 
     blurted out, taking the admiral by surprise.  "We've been down here 
     for three months are we're supposed to relocate?!"
        Wizard nodded, "Yes, that is exactly what you're supposed to do."
     A set of cheers sounded as another segment of wall went down.  "Order
     them to stop working!"
        Gerald took a few deep breaths to calm him self.  He couldn't think
     rationally under stress.  He glanced once again at the designs.  
     Oddly, they held no company names, no named computer data, not even a
     government insignia.  He studied the Admiral himself, suddenly 
     questioning why the government would send a highly accredited Naval
     officer to do a petty go-fer's job.  Wizard continued to glare at the 
     workers, as a two foot section of wall crashed to the ground.  
        With a mammoth tug, the rest of the wall collapsed.  Wizard's eyes
     were buldging and a thick layer of sweat sat prominately on his 
     forehead, despite the room's icy drafts.  "What do you want really?" 
     The putrid smell of death began to permeate through the room from the
     recently opened wall.  "Who are you!!!"
        Wizard smiled evily, "I'm the only survivor of this mess."
        Gerald stared at the man, "What?!"
        He screamed.
        Everyone screamed.

                                    ***

        Admiral Terry Marks silently stares at you from behind his desk.
     "Nice oufit" he remarks.
        You glance down at your civilian clothes. "Thanks" you reply. Time
     passes silently.  You begin to feel uncomfortable. "Sir, may I ask why
     you brought me here?"
        "We need you," Marks says, leaning back in his chair.  "We've lost
     contact with our deep level bar construction crews. The communication
     officers reported numerous screams and bursts of gunfire occurring
     just before the cutoff. Personally, I couldn't think of anyone better 
     qualified to go down there and check things out.
        You push the chair back and rise to leave.  "I retired from that 
     bit admiral, you know that."
        Marks scowls, "Who do you think paid for that six-month getaway
     on that richy pleasure world?!  And do you know how much it cost us to
     buy your companionship with that supermodel girl?  Fifty million! How
     soon you would forget..."
        "And perhaps that three month contract you had to make with Rangion
     Plastics for a hefty supply of body bags has slipped your mind too." 
     You start to walk out.
        Marks jumps up, "Wait! We can work this out!"  You stop, and 
     eventually turn to face him.  "What do you say? You scratch our back,
     we scratch yours?"
        You think about it and slowly return to the chair.  "I'll want
     complete information on the mission before I go."
        "Good enough."
        "I want 75% of everything collected this time."
        "Done."
        "And I'll want Christy Milan, that 'supermodel girl' standing here 
     when I get back."
        "I've got the influence for that."
        "Then what will the mission be?"
        Marks smiled as he knew he was going to get his way.  "It's 
     simple.  You are just to go in, locate the work party, and destroy any
     and all hostiles you may encounter."
        "It sounds too easy," you comment.
        "It should be," Marks replies. "But we need the best, just in 
     case there's something particularly nasty down there.  It's easy money
     boy, don't pass it up."
        You consider the parameters of the task.  Surely, will all of the
     benefits, it should be well worth your time, especially if you get
     another chance with Christy.  "I'll do it," you say.
        "Good!" Marks exclaims.  "There is no time to waste then, you 
     must go now."
        Slightly stunned be Marks' sudden joy, you walk from the room
     and step into the first level of the bar.  You walk past the hundreds
     of patrons, fistfights, and the entire Swedish Bikini Team without a
     word.  You enter a small, concealed service elevator and begin 
     downwards.  After an eternity of waiting, you reach the bottom.
     Checking your gun, you nod and step outside.
        Not far from you, dozens of pre-fab huts stand, obviously the make
     shift living spaces for the work crew.  By the look and sound of them, 
     no one is around.  Noticing a long, wide tunnel going off into the
     blackness, you clamber into the driver's seat of a nearby Rock vehicle
     and start after the missing work crew.
        You eventually come upon another Rock vehicle and stop.  The Rock,
     known far and wide as indestructible, had been utterly obliterated and
     was almost unrecognizable.  The steel core tires had been gouged and 
     torn off, the equipment storage box had been ripped from it's base, 
     and scattered around the room in pieces, while the thick, durasteel 
     hull bore several punctures.
        Then you notice the blood.  In the dim light, it had been hard to 
     see against the dark ground, and you now notice that it is everywhere.
     It's pooled upon the floor, spattered against the walls, smearing 
     along the surface of the destroyed Rock vehicle.  Although you see no
     bodies, you can easily deduce the fate of the workers.  A sudden noise
     sounds behind you.  With lightning quick reflexes, you withdraw your
     pistol, spin around, point at a strange man.  He is doing the same.
        As you both face each other, guns at the ready, a sudden wave of
     recognition passes through you.  "Wizard? Is that you?!"
        At this, the other man lowers his weapon.  "What the hell?! You're
     the last person I'd expect to find down here! C'mon, let's move, it 
     won't be safe." Wizard begins to walk away, and beckons you to follow.
     After considering the situation for a moment, you holster your weapon
     and follow.

                                    ***

        As you travel further down the tunnel, you bein to notice that it 
     is becoming warmer.  Ignoring that fact, you glance over at Wizard, 
     who is leading the way.  You haven't seen your old Bar buddy since the
     end of your second mission into the bar, but that was over two years
     ago.  He really hasn't changed much since then.  Despite the man's 
     calm demeanor, he is still muscular, although slightly small.  Also,
     despite his Admiral ranking, he was clothed in his anti-regulation
     jeans and t-shirt.  Even though he was once a good friend, you allow
     him to keep ten to fifteen paces ahead of you, so you can keep the
     tactical advantage.
        "So, what are you doing down here?" you ask."
        "Just research." he replies.
        You ponder this, as Wizard had always been a man for an MQ-17 
     Nuclear Pulse Assault System, not a pen and paper.  "No offense but...
     Yeah right." you say.  "What do you know about the blood in the room
     back there."
        "Oh that..." Wizard says with slight disgust.  "That was just a 
     slight error in the project, but it's under control again."
        Slightly concerned about what you might be walking into you rest 
     your hand on your pistol.  "I think you'd better show me this 
     research."
        "All in good time friend, and take your hand off of your gun, 
     you'll make me nervous."  Shocked, you obey, although Wizard had never
     turned around to KNOW that you were ready to fire if you had to.  
     After another ten minutes, you notice that the moss covered walls are 
     gradually being replaced by the sight of silver steel panels.
     Eventually, you reach a wide steel wall, with a door set into the
     middle.  The sight of the wall set deep within the uncharted maze of
     future barrooms is incredibly impressive.
        A massive grin is spread across Wizard's face as he opens the door
     and turns to motion for you to follow, saying, "Welcome to Jurassic 
     Park..."

                                    ***

        It is almost a full minute before your body remembers to breathe
     again.  Jurassic Park?  You can't believe it.  Jurassic Park is known
     throughout the Terran worlds and colonies as the most widespread and
     most read book, not counting religious texts.  Even after seven 
     centuries, new versions of the story still captivate millions.  In 
     fact, converting all past sales into modern forms and population 
     levels, the book and other related products have grossed over three
     trilion dollars.  Economically, building the real thing, would be
     wisest thing to do, but to common knowledge, it couldn't be done.
     Apparently, common knowledge was wrong.
        The magnitude of the steel enclosure leaves you nearly speechless
     and your eyes buldging out.  Wizard's grin remains on his face at
     seeing your astonishment.  "That's the typical reaction that we've 
     seen.  Step inside."  You obediantely tag along, walking past the 
     reflective screens of dozens of computer terminals.  In the midst of
     the room you both stop, Wizard not saying anthing, allowing you to 
     admire your surroundings.
        Suddenly a hideous shrieking, groaning noise reaches you from off 
     to the right.  You glance over towards a door, flanked on both sides
     by signs reading 'Jurassic Park'.  The door quickly opens, revealing
     a titanic beast, known as a Triceratops, struggling against the robot
     which was slowly pulling it across the room.  You notice, with growing
     horror, the blood which covers the animal's horns and armored body.
     Suddenly, on one of the horns, you see a piece of cloth, the insignia
     of the work crew still intact.  Shaking slightly, you withdraw you 
     pistol, whip around, and aim for Wizard's head.  Remarkably, he's 
     gone.

                                    ***

           You wave the gun around, scanning the room.  The dinosaur is 
     pulled through another door, off to the left.  Wizard's voice booms
     over a number of speakers, throughout the hall.  "Put the gun down 
     kid."
        "Not a chance, pal." You retort, still trying to locate the sound.
        While looking around you notice a bank of video terminals.  Staring
     at them, you see several dinosaurs, many with weapons equipment 
     attached to it, some charging numerous targets, almost as if in a 
     military training session.  You turn away and begin searching for the 
     man who is running this operation.  "C'mon Wiz!  Lasers?  Fighting?
     Blood?  What the hell are you into?" To show your frustration, you 
     fire eight rounds into a nearby computer and reload.
        You hear the speakers snap as a microphone is turned on, but Wizard
     remains silent, as if thinking.  When he finally spoke, you can easily
     detect the anger in his voice.  "You don't quite get it, do you?  Do
     you know what we're doing here?!  We're saving the entire damn human
     race, that's what!  We have created the ultimate warriors here!
     Through the miracles of genetics, these beasts have armor stronger 
     than a 20 cm block of durasteel!  We've given them speed unlike anyone
     would expect!  We've increased their rage, making them the ultimate
     killing machines!  A few of these on an enemy planet, would be nearly
     invincible!"
        "And if one gets loose, it could be unstoppable, unless we nuke it.
     I can't let you keep this place."
        Wizard was becoming irate, "Listen you fool!  That's just the way 
     it goes.  You can't wield a new sword in battle without hitting a few
     of your own.  That's just the way it is.  So a few innocents die, 
     we'll win the war!"
        "Sorry Wiz, that's not the way it works."
        "Ah, but that's only your opinion."
        "You want my opinion?" you ask, raising your gun, "Come get it."
        The static from the speakers ceases, as the microphone is shut off.
     A few seconds later, Wizard appears again through the door, somehow
     growing larger and larger.  "Isn't modern genetics amazing?" he asks,
     his voice now very deep.  By the time you fight back your panic
     enough to raise your gun, he disappears again.
        A few minutes later, a strange hologram appears before you.  You
     tense up at the message, as you grip your gun tighter and mutter, "Now
     it's war."
        And so your adventures begin... again...
