     
                               Bar Room Blitz VI

                                   EPILOGUE

         "Die, scum!" Admiral Terry 'Vortex' Marks shouts, firing wildly
     in your general direction.  Hot lead impales the walls around you,
     and you run for the cover of a stack of shipping supplies.  Ducked
     down behind a packing crate, you try to control your breathing.
     You take a quick survey of your situation.
         Comma Launcher ammunition.... Low.
         Health Supply... Low.
         Frustration... Ridiculously high.
         You hoist the large weapon around the side of your hiding spot 
     and fire a burst of warning shots.  "You sick bastard!" you cry out, 
     "Why'd you do it?!"
         There is no immediate response to your question.  The sound of 
     falling shrapnel and debris eventually disappears and all is silent 
     but for the crackle of the burning fires.  You set down the Comma-
     Launcher and raise your trusty handgun.
         Admiral Marks suddenly appears from around the other side of the 
     stack of crates.  "For power, fool!  I did it for power!" he screams, 
     lunging for you.
         Quick to react, you get to your feet just as Vortex carries past 
     you.  Adrenaline pumping, you turn around and begin to climb up the 
     towering stack of crates.  A sudden tug at your leg stops your
     upward progress.  Startled, you kick away the admiral's clutching 
     hand and continue to climb.
         Higher and higher you progress.  You aren't quite sure what you 
     hope to accomplish by this course of action, but you know you'll find 
     out soon enough.  About 40 meters above the floor, the stack begins 
     to wobble and shift with your added weight.  The constant grunting of 
     the straining admiral is suddenly replaced by a single, "DIE!!!"  You 
     look down to investigate.
         Your gaze is met by the lengthy barrel of Vortex's gun.  He fires 
     repeatedly, all shots going wide by a large margin.  Desparate, you
     take note of a thick metal wire running across the room just to your 
     right.  Throwing caution and 90% of your sanity to the wind, your 
     dive off of the stack and fly through the air towards the wire.
         From somewhere behind you, you hear Vortex's weapon firing
     another shot.  You detect a sharp, searing pain in the middle of your 
     back.  The feeling lasts for almost a thousanth of a second, and is 
     instantly replaced by nothing.  Your lower body becomes eighty pounds 
     of dead weight.  You miraculously manage to catch hold of the wire, 
     and you dangle there pitifully, fearing for the end.
         "What's wrong, soldier!" Vortex bellows triumphantly, "Feeling a 
     little weak?!"  The admiral laughs insanely to himself.  "Please 
     allow me to put you out of my misery!"  Vortex raises the gun to your 
     head and pulls back the trigger.
         The sharp 'CLICK' of an empty chamber echoes through the room.  
     Then another, followed by several more.  Wide-eyed in disbelief, you 
     watch Vortex attempting to fire the empty gun.  You glance at the 
     tower of crates that is just within arms reach and look back to
     Vortex, who is fumbling bullets into the weapon.
         Letting your left arm go from the wire, you hang at an angle as 
     you reach down and unsheath your tazer-blade from its holder at your 
     side.  "Hey admiral!" you shout, "They say that you've got a head of 
     steel on your shoulders.  Let's test that theory, shall we!"  Vortex 
     gasps in horror as your activate the energy knife and drive it into
     the side of the nearest crate.
         With a loud splintering of wood, the crate explodes.  You just 
     barely manage to get your other hand back on the wire as the rest of 
     the pile tumbles down around you.  Vortex's image disappears as a 
     crate explodes on his face.  His body crashes down into the ground 
     with the rest of the fragments.  A thick cloud of dust is beginning 
     to rise, but you pay it no heed.  You grip on the wire is quickly 
     beginning to slip.  Every second, your paralyzed lower body seems to 
     grow heavier and heavier.  Just as the Bar-Squad Special Rescue 
     Forces charge into the room, your fingers slide from the wire and 
     you drop from the sky.  You feel yourself falling for a moment and 
     then a fierce blackness splatters through your mind.

                                      ***

         "Davis... Paging Doctor Davis..."
         "...30 cc's Acytecotephenol now!  Now, dammit, now!"
         "...Nurse Zurtok, we need bedpans in Bay 9, repeat..."
         The sounds of a busy hospital reach you for a brief moment, but 
     quickly cease as the door to your room is shut.  You hear soft 
     footsteps approaching the side of your bed, and instinctively attempt 
     to prepare for an attack, but you are too weak to move.
         "hhh...who's there?" you manage to say.
         "Sshhhh," the person replies.  "It's me, Tandy." 
         You struggle to open your eyes, and eventually are rewarded by 
     Tandith's charming smile.  "What's going on?" you rasp.
         "The operation was a success," she says.  "The doctors had to 
     completely restructure your spinal column though.  It will take three 
     months to fully heal."
         The number runs through your head.  "Three months?  What about my 
     job?"
         Tandith shakes her head.  "You've been out for a week, and the 
     papers just came in yesterday.  You have been retired from active 
     duty, with full medical and full pension benefits for your deeds."
     She pauses to think.  "They would have promoted you," she continues,
     "but... you killed all of the commanding officers in the Bar Room
     branch of service."
         You let the words sink in.  Retired from active duty?  Money 
     certainly won't be a problem, with what you've collected in your 
     adventures.  How to pass the time would be a challenge though.  You 
     had never considered an early leave from service.  "Wha... what did 
     the board say?" you finally ask.
         "They commented on your outstanding loyalty to the cause and 
     incredible bravery," Tandith says.  "They even pulled some strings so 
     that your month of recovery will be held on the pleasure world of 
     Beachland-7."
         "What about... about Christy Milan?"
         Tanith frowns.  "Well, she wanted 25 million dollars and the 
     presidency.  Since we obviously couldn't handle the 25 million, we 
     had to let her go.  And besides," she says, leaning over and kissing 
     you lightly, "Why should we pay her to be with you, when I'll do it 
     for free..."
         The light, sweet touch of her lips is the last thing on your mind 
     as you fall into a restful sleep like a total wuss.

                                      ***

         SIX MONTHS LATER

         After an extended stay on Beachland-7, you and Tandith purchase 
     a small, habitable planet and settle down on a sprawling million acre
     estate.  Tandith finds a job and quickly moves up to a CEO position
     within Terran Research Industries.  You buy a fleet of star-cruisers
     and start your own mining and shipping company.  As the cash rolls
     in and your power and influence grow each day, you can't help but 
     feel a slight longing to return to the rush of the battle charge and
     the intensity of the fire-fights.
         Sitting in your 10,000 square meter entertainment room, you pull 
     a small piece of paper from your pocket.  "WANTED" it says, 
     "Experienced Bar Room brawlers for sentry, bouncer, and bartending 
     operations.  Come to The Bar.  Faint of heart and/or bladder need
     not apply."  You read the words a few times, enjoying the memories 
     they evoke.
         "Honey?" Tandith says, stepping into the room.  She begins to 
     walk towards your position, just a short hundred meters away.  
         "Yes?" you answer, not looking up.
         "Are you all right?"
         You stuff the clipping between the cushions of the seat and 
     stand.  "Of course.  I was just thinking about... stuff."
         "You're not thinking of going back to The Bar again, are you?" 
     she says, her voice loaded with concern.
         You flash your wife a charming smile, wrap your arms tightly 
     around her, and cross your fingers on both hands.
         "Never again."

                          T H E   E N D . . . . . . ?
