      
                       Bar Room Blitz  -  Errors and Bugs

          Here is where I've documented all of the little quirks and kinks 
      in the gameplay.  These are problems that came along with the 
      MAPEDIT program: I've tried to eliminate most of them, but a few you 
      will have to play around.  I'll apologize now for the problems that 
      they may cause.

          #1)  WALK BAD-DIR ERROR:  This occurs when a boss character 
      first attacks you.  If the boss is standing in a walled area and it 
      cannot move towards you, it tries to take the first step through the 
      wall, resulting in the error.  Unfortunately, the only way to 
      prevent this, is to make you first pass head on.

          #2)  BAD SOUND (SD_PLAYDIGITIZED):  This is a memory based 
      problem.  While playing, it appears that certain sound effects tend 
      to back up in the memory buffer and touching a Gargle Blaster will 
      overload it.  At times, you can prevent this by swinging the knife 
      before getting a Gargle Blaster.  Regardless, on each level be sure 
      to save your game before getting the first Gargle Blaster.

          #3)  DUMB-GUARD BUG:  This used to be a frequent problem, which 
      the enemies on a level would just stand there and die.  This 
      happened when your character would start in a room with no doorways 
      to pass through before shooting.  I believe that all of these have 
      been repaired, so use this as a only a reference if you make your 
      own game.

          #4)  HIDDEN ELEVATOR BUG:  In the MAPEDIT program, if you place 
      an elevator door facing North or South, then the doorway will be 
      hidden by a grey wall.  You CAN walk through this wall still, but it 
      can be frustrating to find.  All of these should have been fixed in 
      this game.

          #5)  INVISIBILITY BUG:  Occasionally, doors may be invisible or 
      you can walk straight through a wall.  As far as I know, the door 
      bug appears only in the bathroom areas, so dont worry.  This problem 
      is caused by placing a guard next to a door, or accidentally putting 
      a dog or guard ON the same location square as a wall in the editor.
      
          #6)  LOSS OF SOUND BUG:  For some reason, you may lose your 
      sound effects while fighting a boss character.  I'm not too sure 
      about this, but the problem only occurs on systems using XMS memory.  
      If possible run Bar Room Blitz under EMS memory only.

          #7)  AUTOMATIC WEAPON-SWITCH BUG:  I do not know what causes 
      this, but with this bug, your weapon will change from the Comma-
      Launcher to the Turbo-Firing Flatulator while a particular door is 
      open.  I know that occurs on Episode 1, Level 4, near the Cyber-
      Cindy room.

          #8)  OUT OF MEMORY ERROR:  On a few levels, (4-3 is a particular 
      nasty one), there are so many characters and items that if you die - 
      the game will throw up on itself and throw you into DOS.  If you 
      should hit a level where this occurs, you'll have to play it with 
      your finger on the F9 (Reload) key.  This is the worst of all errors 
      so.... DON'T DIE!!!

          That about wraps it up for bugs and errors.  If anything else 
      should happen, and it's driving you up a wall, it's probably a game 
      function, not a bug... <EG>
