     
                          BAR ROOM BLITZ IV
     
                               EPILOGUE

        You storm down the hallways of the Barroom Command Center, rivers 
     of blood pouring down your clothes and bits of charred flesh clinging 
     to you like leeches.  Beside you, a cleaning robot struggles to keep 
     pace while making you more presentable.  You reach the end of the 
     hall and kick in the door.  Admiral Marks jumps to his feet in 
     surprise.
        "YOU!" he shouts.  "What... what's this all about?!"
        You pull Wizard's eyeballs from your pocket and toss them onto 
     Marks' desk where they hit with a soft 'plop'.  "I'm here for 
     Debriefing," you say.
        "Well, what happened?"
        "Where's the model?" you ask bluntly.
        "All good things in time," Marks replies.
        "That's nice," you say.  "Where's the model?"
        Marks huffs and presses a button.  A scantily clad Christy Milan 
     sways into the room from a side entrance and relunctantly presses 
     against your gore spattered body.  "Now what the hell happened?!"
        You invite youself to sit down in one of the admiral's fifty 
     thousand credit chairs, completely ruining it.  "I went down into
     the Bar and found the entire work team slaughtered at the hand of
     none other than Admiral Jason Blalock, aka Wizard."
        A panicked look strikes Marks' face.  "You didn't..."
        You grin evily.  "Of course I did..."
        Marks stands in silence for a moment.  "Blalock was one of the 
     best men we had," he finally says.
        "Well then," you reply, "perhaps you should look into hiring more 
     women."
        Marks snorts so hard that he nearly blows his nose off.  In a 
     single motion, he scoops a large stack of papers off of his desk and 
     into your face.  "Mister, I've had just about enough of your 
     attitude.  In light of current developments and due to a cut back in 
     personnel, you are hereby assigned to head up the investigation into 
     this issue."
        "WHAT?!" you managed to blurt.
        "You heard me soldier.  I want a full investigation into Wizard's 
     activities.  It looks to be an extended operation: five years, tops."
        You vocal chords are twisting in knots.  "Five...Five years?!"
     "Don't get indignant," Marks says harshly.  "You keep making these 
     messes, so it's about high time that you cleaned one up.  Report each 
     and every finding to me.  Do you understand?"
        "Yes sir..." you mutter.
        "I can't hear you!" Marks demands.
        "YES SIR!" you scream.
        "Very well," Marks says.  "You are to go on a two week leave and 
     report back here for investigative duties.  Dismissed."
        Arm in arm with Christy Milan, you stalk out of the admiral's 
     office, looking forward to the next two weeks, but dreading what will 
     come next...

     TO BE CONTINUED...
