     
                    BAR ROOM BLITZ - HINTS FOR ALL LEVELS!

               (PLEASE DO NOT READ UNLESS TOTALLY NECESSARY!!!)

     Bar Room Blitz
     ---------------
         NOTE:  Excerpts from 'Blalock's Book of Bar Room Blitzing'
                Volume 1

     Chapter 1  -  This is the entrance to the bar, where several patrons 
     will greet you with open arms and handguns.  Be advised: here you can 
     find the revered Comma-Launcher if you search diligently enough.  
     Also, there is a series of push walls here that lead to an elevator
     which goes straight to a secret area.  A total of three push walls 
     have been found here.

     Chapter 2  -  A get together is always better in a party room!  A 
     Crawford Industries Cyber-Cindy is supervising the group, so watch 
     out.  There is one secret room here which provides you with 
     everything you will need to keep in good health.

     Chapter 3  -  Here we have one of The Bar's many restaurant areas.  
     Ample treasure can be found here, along with a single secret room 
     which holds the restaurant's cash supply.  Surely they would be happy 
     to donate it to the brave adventurer who finds it!

     Chapter 4  -  This is a popular tourist attraction within The Bar.  
     The hologram projector appeared to be slightly confused when putting 
     this area together.  To keep the locals quiet, four Cyber-Cindy's can 
     be found here.  To gain access to the elevator, you must defeat this 
     evil quartet.  The battles here may be fierce, but there are nine 
     hidden areas to replentish you.

     Chapter 5  -  No challenge is complete without a run through the 
     gauntlet!  You will find two secret passages here to help you even 
     the odds in the beginning.  Also, past the gauntlet, you will be 
     affectionately greeted by a monstrous pack of hell-hounds.  You must 
     grab both keycards in order to leave!

     Chapter 6  -  Bodies lie everywhere!  Who could have done such a 
     thing?! (Besides you, of course).  Our curious team of barologists 
     set off to find the answer to this question and were never heard from 
     again.  Perhaps you will find the answer!  There is but one secret 
     room here, somewhere near the entrance.

     Chapter 7  -  Have no fear, for this level is not as hard as it 
     looks.  Fire fast, watch your health, and keep an eye out for the two 
     secret rooms here.

     Chapter 8  -  This level certainly is daunting with its size, but 
     perservereance will help you through.  Both of the keys that you need 
     are to the left of the entrance, not the right.  There are five 
     secret areas here, which will bring you treasure, but they will not 
     provide much health for your success.

     Chapter 9 (Secret)  -  The single secret level in this area of The 
     Bar, is a small storage area guarded by robot probes.  They are hard 
     to see and even harder to kill.  Find the secret passageway quickly, 
     as it will keep you from getting stuck in a crossfire.

     Chapter 10  -  Two secret rooms near the beginning of this level will 
     increase your treasure totals and stock your supply needs.  Once you 
     are ready, proceed onwards to face The Dallas Cowboy in the central 
     arena.  After a battle with this giant, your day of adventuring will 
     be at an end.  Good luck!

     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
     Bar Room Blitz II (Happy Hour from Hell)
     ------------------------------------------
         NOTE:  Excerpts from 'Blalock's Book of Bar Room Blitzing'
                Volume 2

     Chapter 1  -  Welcome back to the exciting worlds that The Bar has to 
     offer!  Here, we start at the Bar Room Training Acadamy.  This place 
     would be a lot more friendlier if the students weren't rioting all 
     the time.  Show those unruly little punks who's boss!  There are over 
     fifteen pushable walls here, along with a frieght elevator that will 
     take you to a super-secret area!

     Chapter 2  -  Plunging right back into the real Bar can be a little 
     disorienting, especially in this area.  Many beginning bar warriors 
     become lost and perish in this place.  Use the central hallway to 
     orient yourself.  Oh yes, and you'll have to convince a pair of 
     Vengeance bouncer-clones to give you the key.  There are five secret 
     places here.

     Chapter 3  -  This immense cavern of rooms has met with little 
     upkeep recently.  Try not to become confused by the honeycomb 
     network.  You will have two opportunities to locate the gold keycard 
     needed to exit, and there is a silver keycard that will let you enter 
     an area of incredible treasure opportunities.  There is only one 
     pushable wall here.

     Chapter 4  -  A large number of private rooms provide a good 
     opertunity to increase your barroom stats and collect health and 
     ammo.  Are you searching for the gold keycard?  Once you locate a 
     hallway that is filled with blood, bone, and gore, then you are very 
     close.  There are two small secret rooms on this level.

     Chapter 5  -  This is one of the many places that act as a receiving 
     point for The Bar's supply of Pan Galactic Gargle Blasters.  Try to 
     collect as much as you can before the patrons swarm over you.  There 
     is rumored to be an incredible spacewalk somewhere, loaded with 
     Gargle Blasters, but the key to the door is hidden away in one of the 
     two secret areas.  Perhaps you will be the one to find it.

     Chapter 6  -  Snipers confront every newcomer to this bar area, but a 
     curious bar fighter should be able to find a way to ambush the 
     ambushers!  In fact, you will need to do so to get the gold keycard!  
     Once you find the elevator, you will have to dance with a pair of 
     Cyber-Cindys.  It is strongly suggested that you find all four push 
     walls before attempting this.

     Chapter 7  -  Yet another twisted bar room comes to challenge your 
     abilities.  The key is hidden behind a curious false elevator face.  
     An interesting oddity known as 'life-savers' can be found here as 
     well.  A pair of secret areas have been found so far here.

     Chapter 8  -  This is a straight bullet shot to the exit, just don't 
     get too cocky.  Two secret areas may have you in the beginning.

     Chapter 9  -  Vengeance's personal factory is here, where he has been 
     storing years worth of Pan Galactic Gargle Blasters!  Kill his ego by 
     helping yourself to his supply and rack up the Bar-points.  Beware of 
     the robot probe guards.  Two secret areas are here which hide even 
     greater riches and even the elevator!

     Chapter 10  -  The walls we find here seem to be arranged in some 
     meaningful pattern that escapes us.  At any rate, once you find the 
     key, double back to enter the final battle area.  A trio of Vengeance 
     clones will be waiting for you.  Be careful!  Also, there are stories 
     of holographic walls somewhere on the level that can be passed 
     through.  If you can do this, great riches can be yours!

     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
     Bar Room Blitz III (Insidious, Omnipotent, Developments)
     ----------------------------------------------------------
         NOTE: Excerpts from com-link network, player and satellite 
               surveillance system uplink.

     Level 1  -  Ok, we've got you on radar.  The ship has been destroyed, 
     except for a handful of traitorous crew members who were braced for 
     impact.  The teleporter room is sealed off, but we detect the gold 
     keycard somewhere in the barracks.  There appears to be heavy 
     weaponery behind a breakaway wall.

     Level 2  -  Dense jungle, eh?  Let's see if we can pull you out of 
     there.  Once you get moving, simply follow the outermost perimeter of 
     the jungle to the right.  If you investigate every opening and 
     bunker, you should have no trouble getting the two access cards 
     needed for the code lock on this level.  No secrets here.

     Level 3  -  This jungle stuff sucks, doesn't it?  Ok, for this one, 
     go straight at the beginning until you hit a solid wall.  Turn left.  
     Go forward just a bit and go right.  A small passageway should be 
     seen to your left.  Take it, and follow it out.  Once you are at the 
     walls of the complex, you'll need to push the walls to find an entry 
     to the sewer system.  Good luck.

     Level 4  -  We've got positive resonance indicating robot probes in 
     the tunnels.  Make your way through the sewers and push the gray wall 
     - it is weak enough to move.  Now you are looking for a series of 
     access doors which lead to another push wall.  Then you can leave.  
     We are picking up four large figures.  Stay away from them, and 
     ignore keycards on this level.

     Level 5  -  All right, now you're in an entertainment complex.  It 
     appears to be build around a circular system so you should be able to 
     move around well.  You'll need two keycards to access the elevator 
     system.  One card is locked behind a door.  The key for that door is 
     not detected.  It is probably held by some sort of huge guard.  Two 
     breakaway walls are here.

     Level 6  -  This is strange.  I've got a number of radar contacts 
     here, and they are moving, but they aren't alive, and they're not 
     mechanical.  Figure out what that is and watch out!  Oh yeah, the key 
     is inside one of the cells.

     Level 7  -  Our satellite photos are showing this to be a torture and 
     prison area.  There are two areas here connected by a large room.  
     Standing from your entry point to that room, take the left door and 
     find the silver keycard.  Then, go back to the other door and find 
     the Vengeance clone which we know is there.  Using his keycard, go 
     back to the first door, and unlock the elevator.  There is only one 
     secret room in this area.

     Level 8  -  This is a factory, or some other production center.  I'm 
     picking up over fifty workers and two supervisor clones.  You'll 
     probably have to kill a clone for their keycard.  No secrets.
     
     Level 9  -  Once you find your way through the brick maze, you will 
     enter a room where The Dallas Cowboy is holed up.  DO NOT FIGHT!  
     Find the lift and make him chase you to the next level!

     Level 10  -  Once you get here, you know what to do.  There are four 
     breakaway walls and tons of supplies, so this shouldn't be too hard.  
     Good Luck soldier!

     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
     Bar Room Blitz IV (Death Incarnate: The Ultimate Evil)

         NOTE:  Excerpts are from the diary notes of David Bracz, Jurassic 
                Park Engineer.

     Area 1  -  This here is the first place you see.  The main guy, 
     Wizard, likes to play around with holograms a lot, but to do so takes 
     all of his concentration.  We like to push walls in front of him so 
     that we won't have to look at him for awhile.  Anyhow, the road into 
     here is a frightful mess.  Rumors say that there is a treasure trove 
     somewhere at the other end.  As for the complex itself, its a bunch 
     of pillars.  The exit here is hidden by an invisible force field 
     system, which is on the upper right hand side of the room.  There is 
     a pathway through the field, but it sure is hard to find!

     Area 2  -  This place is so big, even Wizard gets confused!  The 
     troops here get all crazy at even the slightest noise, but there is a 
     pair of narrow supply halls that are safe to hide in.  Plus, in the 
     main hallway there are three push walls that lead to the other areas.
     There is supposed to a push wall near the entrance that holds some 
     good stuff smuggled down from The Bar, but I can't find it.  Oh yeah, 
     the elevator is in the brown area.

     Area 3  -  This sorry excuse for a research area is always well 
     guarded.  The blue keycards are always kept in a narrow hallway away 
     from the action.  My friends talk about two secret rooms, but I 
     haven't been invited there yet.

     Area 4  -  This area is pretty boring and everything leads back to a 
     central 10-exit junction.  I have heard that there is a room around 
     here with many push walls to more and more treasure.  I have seen the 
     room, but it requires the right blue keycard.  It is supposedly 
     hidden down near the dinosaur pens.  One of those damned Vengeance 
     Clones guards the exit like a hawk.

     Area 5  -  I really don't know why we have to work down here.  The 
     gold keycard is ept in a small place to the left of the access door.  
     The silver card is somewhere in the left maze pasat the door.  Ignore 
     the right maze.

     Area 6  -  Damn these walls!  I have to go left, left, left, grab the 
     key to the left, and then find the damned exit!  Of course, once you 
     find the door out, there is a single wall piece that you can push 
     back to block off the doorway!  Once inside though, there is a small 
     scale replica of the original WCHQ Bar!

     Area 7  -  This place give me the creeps.  They keep the gold key in 
     a twisting dirt pathway by a grave.  I hate this job sometimes.

     Area 8  -  Dammit, more graves!  They hide the keys in the grave 
     sections.  Thankfully, this place is quick to get out of.

     Area 9  -  The boss man has a long corridor of guards here.  We've 
     also got a bar area, a locker room, and again, the boys chat about 
     some hidden treasure room that I can't find.  This is pretty 
     straight-forward though, one path usually leads to the others.  Oh 
     yeah, WATCH OUT FOR THE WALL!

     Area 10  -  The big guy is more that just paranoid!  First, there is 
     a pair of guards, and then there is a trio of Wizard clones!  If they 
     attack us, there are two wall units placed in a round-about tunnel 
     which we can block them off with!  After a long and winding 
     passageway is followed, a third push wall must be moved aside to 
     continue.  Supposedly, Wizard hides down here with a couple of dinos.  
     Ha!  Whatever!

     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
     Bar Room Blitz V (A Demon in the High Command)

         NOTE:  Excerpts are from the direct comm-link conversations 
                between player and Tanith Nyler.

     Level 1  -  Ok, I'm picking you up in The Bar's on-line service!
     Let's see... Exit the room and go left.  Go straight through the 
     intersection and grab the keycard.  Turn back and attempt to go as 
     staight as possible.  Inside the steel walled area is the other 
     keycard.  Find it and get out!

     Level 2  -  One of the four elevator doors in the central room is the 
     way to the exit.  To get the keycard, go straight once you start, and 
     go through any doors or guards that come in your path.

     Level 3  -  The gold code key you need to exit is just to your left, 
     but I think that there is an ambush waiting if you go blindly into 
     the transporter area.  Try to scout out the situation before charging 
     in.

     Level 4  -  You've gotten through the data port and you should be in
     the computer itself now!  You'll need to backtrack a few times here,
     but I know you can make it!

     Level 5  -  Sorry babe, but they are running some sort of hide 
     program here.  All I can pick up on my scan is the silver keycard.  
     It is being guarded by a horde of officers, but you should be able
     to use some push walls there to your advantage!  Good luck!

     Level 6  -  I'm detecting Cyber-Cindy all over the place.  Don't stop 
     to stare, just kill what you have to and get outta there!

     Level 7  -  Ok, I see a number of cross-linked data paths leading to 
     small file spaces.  I show heavy activity there, so you know what 
     that means.  According to these energy fluxuations, a Vengeance clone 
     has got to somewhere along the path to the far right.

     Level 8  -  If your locator is still working properly, you are now 
     moving through the port connectors.  Be sure to search every conduit 
     here, because you never know what might be hiding!

     Level 9  -  I really don't know what to say!  I've got cross-links, 
     duplicates, time deletions, and lost clusters everywhere!  Just try 
     to conserve you ammo and watch your health.  Bring yourself out of 
     there in one piece!

     Level 10  -  Again, they are hiding from me.  But before they could 
     fully hide, I found that this is just a ring of rooms around the 
     central miniaturizer core.  Something huge came into that room jsut 
     before I lost contact.  I also picked up an ambush configuration so 
     be careful!  I'm giving you all my best wishes here, so go kick some 
     serious butt!

     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
     Bar Room Blitz VI (Total Annihalation, Random Destruction, and Senseless
         Violence (and other such quality degredation of family values)

         NOTE:  Excerpts from 'Blalock's Book of Bar Room Blitzing'
                Volume 6

     Chapter 1  -  Time changes everything, and repeat visitors to the bar 
     will find an even more impressive welcoming party.  Of course, now we 
     find a panic tunnel to the left, as well as new area near the old 
     elevator room and even the bathroom.  Fun for all!

     Chapter 2  -  A built in Tachyon beam charger and a coat of 
     negatively ionized paint is what causes this strange wall type here.  
     If you should find your way through, more fun awaits in the form of 
     invisible obsticles that hide a good sized number of treasured items.
     To round out the surprises here, a fascinating wall-of-death performs 
     sentry duty here.

     Chapter 3  -  To the amateur bar adventurer, this level offers a 
     quick escape.  But for the daring, an extensive system of push walls 
     will reveal many challenges for treasure items.  The amazing tachyon 
     walls again can be faced here, along with nine movable walls.

     Chapter 4  -  To any seasoned bar veteran who enjoys gauntlet 
     running, we heartily recommend this area of The Bar.  As long as you 
     move straight across the gauntlet area, you shouldn't have much 
     trouble clearing this.  No secrets have been uncovered in my searches.

     Chapter 5  -  A very interesting place meets us here.  Long corridors 
     lead to a small pub, a larger bar and dance area, and an outdoor 
     restaurant.  For those who find this too tame, both a Vengeance clone 
     and a Cyber-Cindy will be happy to liven up your day.  The exit is 
     shown to be in one of the outdoor areas.

     Chapter 6  -  Hellhounds make another brief appearance here and 
     enliven any patrons Bar experience as only they know how.  Aside from 
     the normal bar stuff, there are two breakaway walls which lead to one 
     another.  Behind these, we discovered a musty graveyard, more clones, 
     and a blue keycard which can only lead to more treasure.

     Chapter 7  -  We think that we've nearly found one of everything on 
     this level. Many room types.  Many patrons.  Cyber-Cindy.  Vegeance.  
     Thunder.  Even a Jurassic Park section from Wizard's mad laboratory.  
     There is one breakaway wall near the entrance that we strongly 
     suggest you find to maximize you enjoyment of this area.

     Chapter 8  -  Some of the best barologists have never come back from 
     this place.  There appears to be very little pattern to the layout 
     here, and no pull walls to aid in your adventures.  There are, 
     however, two very large restroom areas that are excellent locator 
     tools.  The exit is hidden down a narrow passage behind locked doors.  
     The keycard is held of a Vegeance clone and it takes some rather 
     violent convincing for him to give it to you.

     Chapter 9  -  Another bustling center of activity meets us here.  
     Many large hallways connect the rooms, which include a pair of larger 
     areas, and even a shrine of Cindy Crawford XXI, inventor of the 
     Cyber-Cindy.  There are two secret rooms here, which hold most of the 
     treasure items.

     Chapter 10  -  Alas, after a long road of blood and ale, our final 
     journey comes to an end.  However, this could not be a better place 
     to end your day of adventuring!  An enormous hallway will be your 
     first sight in this area.  Once you have cut yourself off from the 
     locals (with the help of the area's single pushwall), you will be 
     ready to enter into the true, the original, the only, WCHQ Bar!  
     Aside from any late interruptions, you will be suprised by the ruler 
     of the Bar.  With perserverance you will be victorious, and bring a 
     gripping conclusion to your quest.  Good luck with your adventuring!

     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
         ***  Excerpts from 'Blalock's Book of Bar Room Blitzing' are
      c 2665 by WIZARDCO INC.  All rights reserved (by credit card)
