                      Bar Room Blitz  -  Story of the Game

                                      ***

          What you have before you, is the culmination of four years of
      hard work, dedication, frustration, re-creation, viruses, and
      sleepless nights.  In short, I hope you enjoy playing this more
      than I did trying to make it!  <G>
      
          Bar Room Blitz is an edited Wolfenstein 3D game, containing all
      new, all original levels, with vast changes in the graphics and
      sounds that make up the game.  The levels were created with the
      MAPEDIT program, while the sounds were made using WOLFSND and the
      graphics made through a combination of Corel Photo-Paint and the
      WOLFEDIT utility.

          The concept for Bar Room Blitz comes from the digital pages of
      the Prodigy on-line service.  As a member of the Wing Commander
      Headquarters (WCHQ) there, I was a frequent patron of a topic known
      as The Bar.  Here, humorous stories flew back and forth between
      friends, and occasionally full scale storybook riots would erupt.
      Once you've played this game, you'll see the connection.
      
          Regarding distribution of this game, it IS freeware of-sorts, so
      feel free to loan people the diskette with the Bar Room Blitz files
      on it, or to copy the .ZIP file that you downloaded from a BBS.
      UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES CAN YOU DISTRIBUTE THE ENTIRE GAME!  I am
      providing the files which will allow legitimate owners of the six
      game version to play.  You cannot play this game by itself.  If you
      copy your entire Wolf 3-D game with my game installed, you are
      illegally pirating the original files and I take no responsibility
      for your actions.
          ***Only distribute Bar Room Blitz in the ZIPPED format which you
      receive it in!!!

          To quote fellow Wolf-editor Jason Blalock, "Finally, gimme some
      credit, ok?"  I would prefer that you not modify my game, but if you
      do, do not distribute the modifications as my game.  Thanks!

          I would love to hear from you!  If you would like to contact me
      you can do so in one of two ways:

          #1) Mail any comments, suggestions, or job offers <G> to:

                              Cordell Falk
                              P.O. Box 21578
                              El Cajon, CA 92021

          #2)  E-mail me at RZTU24A (at) PRODIGY.COM

          #3)  Drop by my web-site at...
               http://pages.prodigy.com/deathblade
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            
             * Prodigy often offers free hours on a trial basis to anyone
      interested, so pick up information on this at your favorite computer
      store.
     
             * Origin/Electronic Arts has recently released its first and
      second Wing Commander games on bargain CD-ROM's which contain the
      add-on mission sets as well.  These are only $10-$15, so there is no
      excuse not to own this!

          * There is no excuse for pirating!  The Six Level Wolfenstein
      game can still be found at Wal-Mart, smaller computer stores, and it
      is occasionally carried by the Price-Costco chain.  If you are
      playing an unauthorized copy, you owe it to the game designers to
      pick this up.

          *Anything else that you find in the game, you should support
      fully and frequently.  These include Vivarin, Life Savers, and
      Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy books. (You can't actually go
      buy a Gargle Blaster, now can you?)

         Be advised that all companies referenced in this game, including
      Apogee and ID software did not have a say in the making of this, so
      when in doubt, don't blame them! <G>
        

        Cordell 'Stilleto' Falk
        Rear Admiral - WCHQ(HC)

          The stories and concepts behind Barroom Blitz are Copyright 1995
       by Cordell Falk.  No part may be reproduced in any form without the
       permission of the author.  All previously copyrighted material (Id,
       Apogee, etc) remains the property of their owners.
          In short, please play the game - don't play with it.
