

                            BAR ROOM BLITZ III

                   (INSIDIOUS, OMNIPOTENT, DEVELOPMENTS)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

        Six months since the last encounter...

        "Your honor, on behalf of public safety, the prosecution moves to
     convict the defendant on multiple charges of 1st degree murder, and
     therefore, by his violent nature, request that bail be denied."  The
     prosecuting attorney finishes are returns to his bench, next to his
     client, The Dallas Cowboy.
        You stare over at the evil man, still not believing that they could
     revive him.  He stares back, with fire burning in his eyes.
        The judge thinks for a moment and then replies to the attorney, 
     "Bail is denied for the defendant, and due to a dropped case, this 
     case will be continued at this present point in time.
        "Shit," you mutter to yourself.
        The trial drags on and on for hours, neither side seeming to tire.
     In reality, there was no true prosecution or defense, because both
     sides were trying to convict the other of a crime.  About five hours
     into the trial, all hell breaks loose.  
        "Your honor, the prosecution would like to enter into evidence, 
     this video taken from the WCHQ's bar video recorders, during the 
     fight."  The judge nods his head and the bailiff leaves the room to 
     get a holo-vid projector.  He returns a moment later, pushing the
     machine into the center of the room.  He takes the tape, inserts it,
     and turns it on.  The lights in the room slowly dim to near blackness.
     You take advantage of the lighting to turn towards Locke and flip him
     off.
        As the hologram begins, the horrid memories fill your head.  TDC
     is standing in the center of a large room, passages lead in all 
     directions.  Surrounding him are numerous innocent looking followers.
     Suddenly, a scream that seemed to come from hell itself emerged from
     the northern passage as you burst into the room, armed with only a 
     handgun, but firing as rapidly as possible.  Near TDC, one of the
     follower's head was split in two by the power of your gun.  TDC
     took a reflexive step backwards, as another patrons chest exploded,
     throwing an unpleasant stream of blood onto the floor.
        Two more followers fall to the ground before he reacts.  TDC runs
     to a defensive position behind a table, and waits.  As you are reloading
     your gun, he then springs up and begins firing...
        For twenty minutes you watch the hologram, completely lifelike, 
     recounting your perilous adventure.  You jerk with sadistic pleasure
     as each bullet thumps into TDC's body, and cringe in pain, each time
     a well place rocket-ball knocks you down.  Finally, after what seems like
     an eternity, the hologram has you standing over TDC's bruised and
     bloodied body, gun raised to meet his insidious gaze. You pull the 
     trigger.  His face recoils with the force of the impact as the bullet
     splits through his rock hard face, through his eye, and lodges itself
     deep with his brain. He slumps to the floor, dead.  The hologram ends
     with the picture of you, rolling insanely on the floor, covered in blood,
     and laughing like a psychopath.
        The prosecuting attorney rises and begins his final assault.  "So,
     ladies and gentlemen of the jury, with this evidence, I hope that you
     see what a menace to society this man over here is."
        With an astonished look on your face, both attornies give their 
     closing arguments.  The judge rises on the stand.  "All right, the
     jury will now deliberate for their decision, the audience and both
     parties will have a thirty minute recess." The judge bangs his gavel
     on his synthwood desk, and everyone leaves.

        30 MINUTES LATER...

        "...We the jury, find the prosecution's client, guilty of 73 counts
     of first degree murder, and delusions of grandeur.  We also find the 
     defendant, guilty of murder, under the conditions of temporary 
     insanity..."
        The judge seems satisfied with the findings.  "All right, this 
     court will adjourn for two hours, and then meet again for sentencing."
     Again, the gavel hit the desk.  Astonished, you leave the room.

        3 HOURS LATER...

        The judge and jury had met and spoken together, and the judge 
     returned to his podium to give the sentences.  
        "Will the prosecution and defense, please rise.  This court hereby
     sentences the prosection on 73 counts of murder and delusions of 
     grandeur, to execution by dismemberment.  Also, this court hereby 
     sentences the defendant to six months in a maximum security prison 
     area.  Both sentences are to be carried out at Ranzworld prison in
     Celarstra system.  Court is adjourned.  *BANG!*

        1 WEEK LATER
        (ONBOARD PRISON TRANSPORT SHIP ORION)

        Lieutenant George 'Gandalf' Hill hated guard duty.  Every time he
     heard the assignments, he dreaded the marks that would indicate his 
     job to guard some worthless trash.  This time, like every other time,
     he had the overwhelming urge to vomit his disagreement.  And this 
     time, like every other time, he fought it back.
        Gandalf walked down the hallway which led to the prisoner's rooms.
     Extremely bored he tried to sing, hum, or do anything to pass the 
     time.  Suddenly he heard a voice... "Guard duty sucks, huh?"
        Gandalf spun around nervously, "What? Who's there!" 
        The voice came from one of the rooms, "I'm in here, just waiting 
     for the ship to dock.  I've got a six month sentence coming up, 
     because some lunatic named The Dallas Cowboy had his attorney thouroughly
     rape the facts of my case.  At least he still got execution..."
        "Hey!" Gandalf interupted, "I saw that case on my holo-vid! Damn,
     but that was a bad decision, I was rootin for you all the way."
        "Thanks." the prisoner replied.
        "This guard duty stuff is so boring," the guard said, "Do you want
     to talk about the truth?  I'd love to hear it..."
        "Sure!" said the prisoner.
        Happy to be relieved from boredom the guard unlocked the door, 
     pushed a button, gave a verbal code.  The door slid open revealing the
     six foot eight inch, burly figure of TDC.
        The guard's eyes shot open in shock, "HOLY SHI...." Gandalf's
     phrase was not completed as TDC reached out as took hold of his head.
     With a voilent jerk, Gandalf's head cleanly separated from his lower
     vertebrae.
        TDC took the dead guard's gun and ammo, and set off for the bridge...
    
        TERRAN SPACE STATION - CHICONY

        "What the hell!" the comm. officer threw down his headset, as 
     incredible static ripped through the earphones.  He immediately began
     to try and re-establish contact with the outbound prison ship. 
     Nothing happened.
        He spun around in his seat, "Admiral! We've lost contact!" 
     Something must be going wrong with the prison ship!"
        The acting on-board admiral frowned.  "Scan that ship's computers,
     and see what's going on.
        The rader operator punched some buttons, "Sir! Someone is issuing
     a tight beam, coded transmission to Ranzworld!"
        The admiral frowned deeper. "Damn" he muttered.
        There was a bright flash as the prison ship jumped out.

        ONBOARD PRISON TRANSPORT SHIP ORION

        The Dallas Cowboy's bloody hands gripped the comm. unit tighter,
     "Do you understand my plans!" he yelled into the head-piece.
        A semi-timid voice came over the other line, "Yes sir! Your loyal
     followers have already begun their glorious assault on the prison, and
     set up outposts."
        TDC smiled evily, "Good! When that scum arrives I want him DEAD!"  He
     turned off the comm. unit by smashing it in.
        He turned and left the room, stepping over the numerous battered
     bodies of the crew members...

        ONBOARD THE PRISON SHIP GRAINGER
          (Admiral Marks' office)

        The admiral rises as you enter, "Ah! I'm glad you came, we have 
     much to discuss..." With a wave of his hand he motions for the guards
     to leave.  They do so.  At the admiral's gesture, you sit down.
        "Okay, first of all, I want you to know that I was all for you 
     getting out of this mess clean."
        "Thanks." you say.
        "Second of all, a situation has developed." The admiral pauses to
     organize his thoughts.  "TDC was sent ahead of you, in a similar
     transport ship.  Reports just in, say that he has somehow broken free
     of his cell, killed the resisting crew, and is planning to kill you."
        "It's so nice to be wanted." you say sarcastically.
        "No time for jokes," Marks replies. "So here's the deal.  We can
     expect an assault on this ship as it approaches the prison.  TDC still
     has many devoted followers.  We are releasing the entire crew in
     escape vessels, and setting the auto-pilot, and auto-landing systems."
        "So how can you stop TDC?" you ask.
        The admiral smiles a smile that makes you uneasy.  "That's where
     you come in.  You will remain aboard the ship among with some others
     and under your command, your group will try and take him out."
        "WHAT!!!" you yell.
        "The admiral remains passive. "You did it once, do it again. If you
     succeed, you will be given a full pardon.  If you fail... well, try 
     not to die feeling guilty about the millions of people that you will 
     doom..."
        You think about this for a minute.  "Okay, I'll do it. What info. 
     do you have on the prison."
        "Okay, now this is like a briefing, listen and don't interupt. We
     don't have much time."  You nod in agreement.  "Good, now first of all
     you will be in the bar.  The bar has a hologram door that can be 
     hidden, so you'll be safe in there until you land.  Now, you should be 
     able to escape though the small flight decks and onto the planet.  
     Just so you know, in addition to the rooms, there are some wash rooms,
     two O-decks, food and medical storage areas, flight preparation areas,
     and three bridge areas. If for some reason the flight decks are gone,
     the central bridge area has two teleporting devices to take you to the 
     surface."
         "Once out of the plane, you'll be in a lower jungle area. Scout
     reports say that there are zombies patrolling the jungle, and small
     command bases being set up for elite soldiers.  Somewhere in there 
     should be a lift to the next area."
        "The upper jungle is similar to the lower, but if you can find a 
     way out, you'll be at the prison entrance gates.  Scouts say that 
     there is HEAVY defenses at the main gate and it should be avoided.
     The prison jailers are known for their strength, and they would be 
     happy to join forces with TDC. It's probably them.  Anyways, old records
     show that there is a secret entrance into the sewer system beneath the
     prison... That's your best bet to get inside."
        "Once out of the sewer, enter the main entrance area and take out
     as much as you can.  Everything you take out, only makes the marines
     job easier when they arrive, and they will.  Prisoner reports speak
     of a lift to the guards recreational area which is hidden.  I can't 
     help you any more with that."
        "Once through the rec. area, you should come to the minimum 
     security area.  The prison guards like to use dogs to patrol this 
     area, so be careful there.  Next is the maximum security area.  Be
     carefully of lots of guards and suprises.  Also, the execution areas
     should be in that vicinity. Keep an eye out."
        "The next lift should bring you to the prison workshop facilities.
     We don't know anything about that area, but we would expect opposion
     from at least one jailer."
        "Finally, TDC should be holed up somewhere on the next level.  It
     was under construction for some time, and nothing but the hallways
     were ever built.  At the end of the maze of hallways, you can expect
     TDC to be hiding somewhere... If possible, get to the lift, and
     travel to the lowest level of the prison.  It has a big, pretty much 
     open area to fight him in, and somewhere are storage areas for food 
     and ammo."
        The admiral pauses to let all that sink in. "Do you have it all?"
        You nod, "Yeah, I understand."
        The admiral rises, "Good, get over the bar then and take this
     scanner.  It should keep you semi-informed of what's going on 
     outside the room." 
        You take the scanner, "Thanks admiral."  You walk to the bar.
     
        10 MINUTES LATER - IN THE BAR

        A deafening explosion rocks the ship. "What the hell!" you scream.
     You look at the scanner, noticing that the escape pods hadn't been 
     able to take off yet.  Suddenly numerous gunshots rang through the 
     ship as TDC's followers had obviously just boarded the ship.  The
     screams of dying men fill the air.  
        After what seems like three eternities you are knocked to the floor
     as the ship smashes into ground at the landing site.  You look at the
     scanner.  The mini flight decks are crushed and filled with earth.
     You take out your gun and turn to the four men who are with you. 
     "Well guys, are you ready to party?" A look of shock crosses your 
     face.  The four men are barracaded behind a group of tables.  One of
     them screams, "Hail TDC!" and then they open fire...
        And so it begins...
