

                             BAR ROOM BLITZ II

                          (Happy Hour From Hell!)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

        "Leave me alone, you psychopathic freaks!!!", you scream futily as
     you skillfully leap over a desk, away from the clutching hands.
        The many owners of those hands, pursue you intently, screaming in
     unison, "WE WANT GRADES!!!"
        "Well if you'd drop dead, and leave me alone, I just might be able
     to get 'em done!", you yell in retaliation.
        A powerful voice in the back rises above the rest, "He's full of it!
     Let's kill the teacher!"  The commotion dies down for a bit as the 
     restless students consider this, agree with it, and then the riot
     begins again as they begin an attempt to carry it out.  Dozens of guns 
     rise to meet your gaze.
        Your mind races furiously as you think of something to say to perhaps
     influence the situation, but all your thoughts blur together in a bleak
     haze...You yell out with the only thing that clearly comes to mind, "SHIT!"

        You quickly initiate your self-preservation mechanisms and run like
     hell, as the blasts skim by.  You run into your office and slap a button,
     causing the door to fly shut.  You hear an unpleasant (THUMP!) as one of
     the chasing students can't stop and eats door.
        You walk over to your desk and sit down, noticing a urgent message 
     from one of the admirals.  You quickly scan over it...

        From: Terry Marks a.k.a. 'Vortex'
        RE: Mission assignment

           All hell is breaking loose in the newly constructed addition
        to the bar.  Not only is the body count becoming quite large, but
        one of those unruly little punks blew apart my Mercutian Particle
        Beer...this is totally unacceptable.  I want you to send your bar
        room squad over there immediately, then read over the attached 
        information that we have.  Once you've read it, then assign your
        students over the radio, and clear out all levels of that hellhole.
        Good luck, and godspeed.
                                            -Read attachment-

        You quickly scan over the attachment note, and let out a huge sigh.
        "Great", you say to yourself, "I'm supposed to send in a rebellion,
     to quell a rebellion... Now what?"  You decide you should try and 
     reason with your students.  Out of the right desk drawer, you take an
     ammo clip in put it in your blaster.  Out of the left, you get a kit
     of Vivarin and take it.  For reference you check your watch... 5:00.
        "Happy hour...", you mutter. "Happy hour from hell..." You walk to the
     door, but noticed that the students must have hit the door controls,
     as it won't open.  You glance around the room for the manual, old-
     fashioned key.  A puzzled look crosses your face as you notice that it
     is no longer sitting on the corner of your desk... "Where did the 
     friggin key go?"
        "I've got it." says a familiar voice, "And since you're about to 
     die, I'd better keep it!"  You spin around, and recoil in horror as a
     Cyber-Cindy comes out from behind one of the columns.  "My master has a
     message for you...", she says and reveals her pair of built in turbo-firing

     flatulators.   For the second time in ten minutes you scream out with a
     four letter vulgarity, as the clone opens fire.  Your desk takes a score
     of hits, exploding into microscopic fragments and scattering medical kits
     of Vivarin and ammo clips all around the room.  The clone turns and raises
     her smoking flatulators level to your head...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     CLASSIFIED INFORMATION - TOP SECRET
     SECRET OPERATION, CODENAME: MASS CARNAGE
     TERRY MARKS, ADMIRAL - HIGH COMMAND

     Mission Objectives: An overwhelming amount of rowdiness is surfacing
  in the new area of the bar.  Due to the excessive violence, your mission
  is to break through the crowd and annihalate all opposition, and restore
  some semblance of order and normality.  

     ANALYSIS OF ENEMY FORCES

     Expect severe opposition by certain forces, especially the clones of
  Cindy Crawford XXI.  Her clones are on a mission of death and murder, and
  have indicated a severe hatred towards you.  Keep an eye out.
     Vengeance has indicated that he isn't very happy with the bar right
  now, and has programed the hologram projector to create numerous clones
  of himself.  The clones, like a Cyber-Cindy, are very powerful and aren't
  giving anyone a break.  If you see them, kill them first.
     Wizard's blasted pet Fido, that big alien-creature, has been using the
  bar as a kennel for his friends.  Be ready for the huge packs of dogs and
  get rid of them!
     Main opposition will come from the patrons themselves. They have no
  organization but their wild shooting is EXTREMELY dangerous...(Some of 
  the officers involved are higher ranked with more skills.  Their purple
  uniforms will give them away, so keep an eye out for them.)
     Another warning about the patrons... Most of the patrons you will be
  fighting have been in that bar for hours, and are dead drunk.  
  Unfortunately, you won't be able to tell the real difference until it's 
  too late.  So watch the patrons when you enter a room.  If they attack,
  carefully take them out... If they don't, then you've found a drunk. You
  should be able to take them out with one shot from behind, or the knife.

     MISSION PARAMETERS

     With your basic mission, special rules have been devised...

     * Kill with EXTREME prejudice.  Take no prisoners, leave no survivors.

     * What you see, is what you get... Throughout the bar, is scattered 
     tremendous amounts of that excellent drink, Holy Grail Ale... Although
     it isn't good for your health, you are authorized to drink it all for
     the personal benefits...(points)

     * A secondary objective is to find Vengeance's secret storage area, and
     TAKE IT DOWN!  He has been skimming crates of Gargle Blasters from each
     shipment and storing them in his own personal hiding spot.  If you can
     find this, you can take as much as you can hold...

     * Good luck

                                            -End of Note-
