

                           BAR ROOM BLITZ II

                                EPILOGUE


        The final Vengeance clone still inches forward, showing the signs
     of the horrid battle.  His body no longer looks human, but more like that
     of a blob, a slithering mass of blood.  He looks up into your face and
     struggles to stand again.  Remarkably he succeeds.  He slowly raises his
     gun in a final attack.  You calmly raise your handgun and fire.
        The force of the final shot on his weakened body propels him
     backwards onto the floor.  Blood gushes from hundreds of tiny holes in
     his putrid body, as if he had been attacked by cannibalistic earthworms.
     He exhales a final breath, letting a small bubble of blood emerge from his
     mouth.  The bubble explodes into a large stream of blood which flows freely

     onto the floor.
        As if to prove your point you empty your gun into his body and 
     stagger over to the nearest wall and crumple down next to it, 
     oblivious to whoever's blood you're sitting in.  You activate a small
     transmitter, "Mission accomplished," you mutter into it. "Better bring
     a lot of sand..." Overwhelmed by fatigue you fall asleep right there.

        1 WEEK LATER

        After a quick recovery you return to doing what you do best...
     "Hey ArcticFox! Could I get a Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster over here!"
     ArcticFox brings you the drink, which you greatfully down.  You walk
     over and sit down near Wizard.  "So how life on your half of reality?"
        "Life," Wizard says, "is good. Reality... is bad.  Did you hear  
     about that new guy who tackled the hologram projector a few days ago?"
        You shake your head no.
        "Oh, boy.  You'd love 'em. He rushed right in there and blew away
     every thing that moved... But you already know about that kind of 
     stuff, don't you?" Wizard laughed at his comment.  You also laugh in 
     agreement.  
        "So how'd he do?" you ask.
        "Great. Just great. No survivors...what a mess! I wish I could see
     that again!"
        Just then a plebe runs by chased by an enraged Commander.  The
     commader pulls out a pulse rifle and annihalates the plebe.  A large
     amount of carnage explodes onto the floor, and goes unheeded.
        "Without those bouncer clones around, this place sure is gonna get
     messy."  Wizard comments.
        "I don't mind..." you say, dead serious.
        Wizard grins, "Sorry, I already forgot... Anyways have you seen the
     holo-vids recently?  The enemy is pulling out of here, so with fewer
     missions, The Bar is gonna get pretty rowdy."
        You grin evily, "Rowdy is what I'm here for..."

                                  THE END
