DEADLY SLEEP
============
A Spear of Destiny modification
By Arielus & Schabbs



Story


The long corridor seems lifeless. No sound of any kind can be heard. All is deadly 
quiet in every direction. On both sides, the grey walls are decorated with red flags, 
the swastika symbol on their centre. Blue vases are placed symmetrically all over 
the place; green lights hang from the ceiling. Ahead, the path turns to the right 
and disappears from sight. A little brown tree rests on the corner.

The right arm is raised, the handgun is held; the index finger, ready to pull the 
trigger. Warm drops of sweat come down from the forehead and bath cheeks, neck and 
shoulders. The grey uniform is full of stains of the blood that once belonged to 
the corpses left behind. The whole body is stiff; the tension grows as the seconds 
go by.

Straight against the right wall, the soldier moves on. He reaches the end of the 
corridor and slowly takes a glance at the path's continuation. The coast is clear. 
Walking stealthily he gets to the end of the road. A metallic door is closed in front 
of him; two Hitler portraits, one on the right and one on the left, complete the 
scene.

Fearing the worst, the soldier takes a deep breath and opens the door. Silence. No 
one is in there. A small room, empty tables and empty chairs all around. Another 
door is on the right. As he walks towards it, he begins to smile joyfully - it is 
an elevator chamber. Once into it, he will pull a switch down, and no longer will 
he be on this floor.

Keeping nothing but that desire in mind, he rushes to the door and opens it. Seconds 
later, the switch goes down and the movement begins. Another level is finished. He 
will not see that creepy long corridor again, or so he thinks...

.
.
.

The morning was cold. After what had been a grey, cloudy week, the first drops of 
rain finally began to pour down upon the streets of London. Wind had started to blow 
strongly on Wednesday, and by Thursday it fiercely whipped trees, traffic lights 
and pedestrians all across the city. 

The year was 1945. Europe had been the scenery of what in the future many books would 
call 'The Second World War', but that was over now. Adolf Hitler had been dead for 
about a month, and with his demise, the scarce German forces that still battled had 
lost all hope, and had ultimately collapsed before the Allies' feet.

The Third Reich had crumbled. The Nazis had failed. No longer would they be able 
to threat the European nations with their sickly, insane obsession of world domination. 
Nobody but them knew for sure what would have happened had they succeeded. Would 
they have gone on with the rest of the world? Perhaps...

On the corner of a well-known avenue stood a respectable hospital, the best one in 
London. Inside, a surgeon and a nurse stopped their steps in front of a room upon 
whose door a plate read '303'. It was closed. Someone was sleeping in the bed inside. 
He was recovering from the injuries he had sustained in battle.

"Is this the patient, Doctor?" asked the nurse.

"Yes," answered the other. "He is to be given extreme care at all times. The hardships 
he underwent while serving his country have left him in a most delicate state."

"What exactly is it that he did that left him so badly injured?"

"He fought and killed the Nazis one by one until they were no more. A truly one-man 
army. His story defies belief, but I've never heard of anything more real in my entire 
life. He didn't just serve his country; he served the whole world. He saved us all."


"Amazing..."

"I know..."

"Look now, he seems to be having a nightmare as we speak..."

"Yes. He has been having them ever since he landed in that bed. It seems to me that 
he is still fighting, even in his sleep."

"The Nazis?"

"I would believe so..."

"Are these nightmares something to worry about? Could they be harmful... or deadly?"


"It's hard to say. They might not be just bad dreams. This soldier was on the verge 
of dying on countless occasions, and I've no doubt he was prepared to embrace death 
every time. It might be just possible that right now he can't distinguish between 
being awake and being asleep. What if he dies in his sleep? Will he also die here 
and never wake up again? I'm not sure... I would suggest special attention is paid 
whenever he journeys into one of his dreams."

"I shall do my best so that he makes a full recovery."

"Indeed. We don't know what the future holds for us. Has the Nazi empire been completely 
destroyed? Who can really tell? God forbid, but we may need him again..."