Nazi Auferstehung by Darkexodus a.k.a Princeexodus

Story So Far: 2067 A.D.


You are the lone survivor of the Marine squadron sent in to eliminate a Neo-Nazi 
take-over in a nearby city; you have been given the task of eliminating the Nazi 
plans of Global Domination. Earlier, while fighting through a ravaged city taken 
over by Neo Nazis, You and your squad members found an unbelievable discovery within 
a Neo Nazi vault: The remnants of Hitler's Nazi Generals had escaped to different 
regions of the Earth to fulfill an ancient Prophecy of Germanic Origin rewritten 
in the texts of Leonardo Da Vinci. 

The Prophecy Read: "There will be a Powerful man, who is a hero to his clansmen yet 
a menace to the world. This man will join forces with the children of Rome and succeed 
in bringing into existence a massive war, in which all clans across the world shall 
be affected. As all powerful men shall fall, this man shall die performing a ritual 
which shall preserve his soul in the state in which he lived before his death allowing 
him to come back with the help of his resurrected army and the source of all evil, 
Satan. The man will have many followers which will be willing to die and kill in 
his name, even it means killing their fellow brethren in order to reach and kill 
their leader's enemy. On the day, which this man is resurrected, his followers shall 
reunite in the great land of the Red People and commence the Satanic ritual which 
is required to bring back their Evil Savior and once more unleash hell into an unsuspecting 
world. The Dark Lord of Hell shall grant these men aid, in the form of his hellish 
Demons. Each of these Demons shall appear on every sixth day since the ritual began, 
until all of the Dark Lord's legions have been summoned to help these fiendish mortals 
achieve their dark quest of changing the world, we mortals know as Earth. On the 
Day of Doom, when these men shall commence their Dark Deed, there shall emerge a 
Warrior of Light and Purity. His body shall be full of vengeance and rage, for the 
Dark Man’s servants would kill his brethren. The Dark Lord shall yet lose his legions 
to this inhuman mortal.(Prophecy of "RELTIH FLODA" B.C.200. the secret writings of 
Jobe, servant to the Lord of Purity and Justice, Jehovah)

After reading this you and your men were baffled, but after finding briefcases in 
the Neo Nazi vault carrying apparent documentations and photos of Satanic Rituals 
nothing written in this so called prophecy should ever be taken for granted. Especially 
since the Prophecy's name backwards is in fact Adolf Hitler, who before his death, 
was an evil maniac who had been bent on world domination and total annihilation of 
ethnicities outside of the Aryan race.
Two hours later after encountering much resistance by the Nazi Troops, you notice 
something strange. All of them strangely locked their sights on your team without 
hesitation, as if they were possessed, because they shot through each other in crossfire 
in order to reach your squad! After watching your Squad members die, you have no 
sense of reluctance towards avenging them.....

After a while, you notice something out of the corner of your eye. There is group 
of hellish creatures approaching you. They resembled Flying Red Skulls! As you stood 
there, the fiendish heads started flying towards you, you notice the glow in their 
eyes; there is no sense of hesitation as you pull the trigger of your shotgun. 
As one by one they explode, you think to yourself: "If that Prophecy is true, than 
I better get a head start, I don’t want to wait around to see what else is going 
to show up from Hell to greet me after each of those Nazi freaks performs their ritual".

You now have a mission: Cleanse the nearby areas of Possessed Nazi spawn, stop the 
apparent resurrection of Hitler and survive encountering whatever resurrected Nazis, 
Clones of Hitler, and nightmarish creatures Hell has to offer, as a "welcoming party".

You come to the entrance of a Hidden Nazi Labyrinth, which you read about in the 
Documents You and Your Team had found earlier. Apparently It had existed undiscovered, 
because it was built on the private property of Nazi General's and their wicked families 
who were loyal to Hitler. Most of them died from Natural causes yet their children, 
continued to build the Labyrinth, while recruiting more troops from Neo-nazi Cults. 
You know your objectives, now you must go into the Nazi Labyrinth and accomplish 
your tasks, in order to save the world.