THE STORY

After fighting your way through the Nazi moonbase and stowing away on a cargo ship, you finally arrive on Earth. And, as luck would have it, you land at an installation right on the outskirts of New Berlin. Determined to take this fight all the way to the top, you set out in search of Nazi Headquarters to kill the cyborg Hitler who still rules Germany -- and the world. But here on their home turf, the Nazis aren't about to play games with someone who's already slipped through their fingers twice, and the moment you step off the ship and into the hangar, you realize the challenge ahead is far greater and more dangerous than what you've already left behind.

ASTROSTEIN 3 ENEMIES

DEFENSE DRONE
The electronic equivalent of a guard dog, these machines can usually be found patrolling along streets and corridors.

CREWMAN
Assigned to carry out most regular duties around headquarters, these non-coms are rather wimpy, but they're all over the place.

SHOCK TROOPER
On Earth, these guys wear blast-proof visors, carry laser rifles and serve as members of New Berlin's police force.

OFFICER
Not as well armed as troopers, but what they lack in firepower they more than make up for in speed and arrogance.

SHADOW
This elite type of commando wears a personal forcefield that makes him practically invisible. Stealth is the prime ingredient in his attack.

LEVEL 1 ENFORCER DROID
Charged with keeping citizens in line, these robots make sure nobody even thinks about challenging the Reich's rule.

SECURITY ROBOT
These highly intelligent robots make sure no one enters unauthorized areas at Nazi HQ.

MINITANK
Driven by commandos, these small armored vehicles are armed with formidable laser cannons.

LEVEL 2 ENFORCER DROID
A lot nastier than level one. with twice the shielding and firepower... as well as twin photon cannons.

GUARDIAN
These powerful drones serve as the CyberHitler's personal guards.

CYBERHITLER
Thanks to cybernetic technology, the Fuhrer is still alive and well, even after a whole century.

WEAPONS AND AMMO

LASER RIFLE
The standard sidearm of all shock troopers, these automatic weapons fire short bursts of pulsed energy.

REPEATER
Capable of sustained fire, these weapons pick up where the rifle left off. but they deplete energy reserves at a very fast pace.

PLASMA CANNON
These potent weapons can fire large bursts of plasma in quick succession and have no range limit.

PHOTON CANNON
The most powerful weapon in the Nazi arsenal, these cannons shoot powerful bolts of photon energy.

POWER PACK
Standard issue recharge for the laser-based weapons: pistol, rifle, and repeater. Good for five bursts.

LARGE POWER PACK
Larger recharge for laser-based weapons. Good for twenty-five bursts.

PLASMA RECHARGE
Recharge for the plasma cannon. Good for fourteen blasts.

PHOTON RECHARGE
Recharge for the photon cannon. Good for five blasts.

BACKPACK
Increases the amount of ammo you can carry, and also contains four power packs, four blasts for the plasma cannon and five blasts for the photon cannon.

OTHER ITEMS

BOOSTER PACK
Gives a 4% boost to your health.

DINNER
Gives a 10% boost to your health. Usually found in mess halls and crew quarters.

MEDKIT
Gives a 25% boost to your health. Large stockpile in sickbay.

ONE-UP
Restores your health to 100% and gives you an extra life.

ELECTRONIC KEYS
Some areas aboard ship are restricted to unauthorized personnel. These cards will open all locked doors.

ALIEN ARTIFACT
Strange and valuable crystals collected by the Nazis on their conquests. Picking up 50 of them in any one level will give you a free life.
