Wolfenstein 3D: Spear of Destiny
The final resistance1) Intro
Spear of Destiny: The final resistance is a SoD modification with new Sprites,
textures and sound collected from different Wolfenstein 3D Fan websites - also some

created by the author of this modification, never seen before in Wolf3D world –with 
a
new atmosphere, new enemies and experiences.
The main points of this MOD are level Mapping , interior design and puzzle
structure of of the 19 different levels. Each one has a different approach and a 
story to
tell, such as the Castle Interior, the high security prisions, the Schabbs Secret 
X
laboratories and the Spear hideout.
We encourage players to read the story and description of this small Read Me to
understand what SoD: TFR is all about, including its Innovation.
1.1) Basic Controls
Spear of Destiny uses basically the same controls of Wolfenstein 3D
Ctrl – Shoots
Space – Open Doors and Secret Walls
Key Arrows – Movement
2) The Story
After retrieving the Spear of Destiny, B.J is once again engaged by the OSS into

another mission. This time, you’ll need to retrieve a second and more powerful
Spear. That’s Right. It seems that there is another Spear, more powerful and
unique than the one you retrieved. The Thule Society discovered a spear with
“Aryan” roots after some expeditions to the Middle East and India, which it is
believed that belonged to different ancient emperors.
The OSS don’t know precisely its power. According to different sources, the
Nazis are trying to use it as an ultimate weapon inside their last bastion of
resistance against the allied forces: Caste Brunwald, in Austria. The Castle is
famous for top secret researches, human experimentation and High Tech
weaponry tests. The Castle protector is General Schröder, a nazi party member
official that ascended SS ranks and currently guards the Castle prison, inside a

lavish floor surrounded by SS Honor Guards. He was also one of the chief
inspectors of Dr. Schabbs experiments.
All evidences collected so far indicates that this Aryan spear is hidden into the

castle. It’s BJ’s mission to get there and destroy the last nazi resistance, destroying

a new utopia of world domination.3) The Levels
Part 1: The Castle
Level 1: Castle Entrance
Castle Brunwald entrance is full of the most expensive furniture of Central Europe,

including rooms entirely made of Black Forest woods decorated with honor flags of 
the
Third Reich. Only invited members are permitted to enter the Black Marble corridor,

which directs to the castle upper floors. Let’s see if you are able to enter inside 
it !
Level 2: Conference Rooms
Albert Speer, Hitler’s personal architect, designed this floor especially for High 
and Top
Secret Nazi conferences for politics and other sinister topics. The main entrance 
Hall
was Hitler’s personal favorite. The one that wants to explore even more the castle

whereabouts will need to search for secret areas and walls for different passageways

that lead to the castle upper floors. This was intentionally done for security matters

against intruders.
Level 3: Soldiers Chambers
In the third Floor you’ll face the officers and soldiers restrooms. With labyrinth

corridors, the elevator to the fourth floors is heavily guarded and hides many surprises.

Level 4: High Officials Floor
Only High Nazi officials are permitted into this floor. Designed for accommodations 
and
lavish dinners, the fourth floor also guards the elevator to the Level 2 top secret 
floors
of the castle. To reach there, you’ll need to find the many secret passageways that

holds secret rooms.
Level 5: Top Secret Floor nº1
Not too much is known about this room, since no one ever went there and escaped
alive. Our reports indicate that it is extremely heavily guarded and leads to an 
elevator
that goes straight to the castle prisons.Part 2: The Prisons
Our reports about these secret floors are really scarce, based upon OSS agents
infiltrations and coded messages sent to us.
Level 6: Human Cells
Probably visitors are not permitted inside here, neither are mere high officials. 
As far as
we know, access to Brunwald’s prisons needs the consent of General Schroder. Our 
OSS
agents indicated that the Nazis are holding humans inside prisons for further human

experimentation for their ultra-secret laboratories. We do not expect that you find 
any
prisoner alive.
Level 7: The Blue Floor – Interrogation rooms
The Nazis get their prisoners for interrogation around here. Narrow rooms and tricky

secret doors probably are part of this horrendous place.
Our Department does not have further info’s on the upper floors of the castle, only

their respective activities. ! Some info below may Contain spoilers!
Level 8: Torture Floor
Level 9: Execution Floor
Level 10: General Schroder Office
Eliminate the crazy man to access Dr. Schabbs X Laboratories. This man is responsible

for many atrocities against human beings. You have permission and all means
necessary to eliminate him.
Part 3: Dr. Schabbs X Laboratories – After Schabb’s death we knew that a second and

most secret laboratory existed somewhere in Germany, but only now we know that it

is inside Brunwald Castle. Find Out what’s going over there and eliminate all Schabb’s

crazy experiments at once!
Level 11: X-Labs Experimentations floor
Level 12: Testing’s and medical operations floor
Level 13: Chemical Biohazard storage and surgery floor
Level 14: Dr. Schabbs Private Headquarters
Level 15: Deactivated Laboratories
Level 16: Unknown Floor
Part 4: Aryan Spear Fortress – This is probably where the Spear is being held. Expect 
all
kind of protection and extreme heavy security.
Level 17: Spear Protection FloorLevel 18: Spear Floor
Level 19: Escape ?
4) Enemies
4.1) German Army and Waffen SS Staff
You’ll face some of the best prepared staff of the remaining Third Reich inside the

castle. These are the most common enemies you’ll face along your mission. They will

kill everyone who tries to trespass the security levels, including even those of 
the
german arymy, who do not have permission to go further.
Wehrmacht Soldier
Waffen SS Hauptmann
Waffen SS Officer4.2) German Top Secret experiments
Some of our previous reconnaissance indicated that the Nazis have some Top Secret

technology inside the castle. These include :
 Human Experiment mutants, probably more advanced in weaponry than those
you’ve encountered previously on Dr. Schabbs secret laboratories in Operation
Wolfenstein, if not more resistant. Rumors say than something greater than a
Mutant exists.
 Über Soldiers, robots designed to kill with the most advanced weaponry
available. OSS Indicates that there are two types of these Über Soldats,
normally they protect something vital for your progress inside the castle floors.

Eliminate all of them!!
4.3) Top Priority Targets
Gen Schröder – All we have from this man is his passport picture. He’s
responsible for many atrocities against innocent people from Europe, using them as

experiments inside Brunwald Castle. He was Dr. Schabbs superior and creator of all 
the
bizarre experiments you have seen and will see further.
Eliminate him at all costs to access the Castle top secret floors.5) Important Rooms 
and Tips
In Spear of Destiny: Final Resistance, you’ll encounter some exclusive rooms which

hold Ammunition and MedKits, such as the Ammo Storage and Infirmary. These have
different and exclusive wall textures that you’ll find through the castle, which 
are
easily identifiable. These can only be opened with Golden or Silver Keys.
Infirmary
Ammo Storage5.1) Rooms with secret Walls
Sometimes, through your progress, you’ll need to access Secret Rooms through Secret

walls. This was not a common thing made by the Wolf 3D and SOD designers, due to

the difficulty of gamers to find these secret walls. In SoD: Final Resistance, all 
these
passages are subliminary indicated by Walls with flags or other symbols, so If you 
are
stuck, try to push walls with these indications.
There are no secret walls without symbols that are vital to be discovered for the 
Level
completition.
5.2) Level Testing
All the levels of this Mod were tested and completed on the highest difficulty
beginning with 8 Bullets and a pistol.
If you find any bugs, which is common, report to me at roberto (at) carnier.com
5.3) Credits
Textures and Sounds were collected and downloaded from:
 Wolf3d Dome.UK
 Wolf 3D Mods: Project Einsenritter, Castle Totenkopf, Spear: End of Destiny
 Monkee’s Image World.
Some wall textures and sprites were created and edited by me using Photoshop CS4.

Spear of Destiny is a creation of ID Software ®. This is just a modification and 
it is free
for sharing.
5.4) Music to listen while playing Wolf3d
While Wolfenstein is recognized by its nostalgic Soundtrack, SoD: FR was theorized 
and
created with Tangerine Dream “Krautrock” playing on the background. Here’s a list 
of
songs which are suitable to listen when playing this MOD.
(Album from Tangerine Dram – Name of Song)
Spear of Destiny : Final Resistance Open theme is “The Keep – Stealing the Silver

Cross” – Free for listen at files.
If you wish I can send you the songs, just e-mail me.
LV1: Tyger – 21st Century Common Man (pt1/2)
LV2:Antique Dreams – Phaedra of NottinghamLV3 The Private Music of Tangerine Dream 
- After the Call
LV4: Hyperborea: No Man’s Land
LV5: Thief – Dr. Destructo
LV6 : Seven Letters from Tibet: The Red Blood Connection
LV7:Legend – The Blue Room
LV8: Hyperborea- Hyperborea
LV9 Hyperborea- Sphynx Lightning
LV10: Sorcerer - Vengeance
LV11: Green Desert – Green Desert
LV12: Optical Race: The Midnight Trail
LV13: Mars Polaris - Astrophobia
LV14:Phaedra -Phaedra
LV15 Phaedra – Movements of a Visionary
LV16: Zeit – Nebulous Dawn
LV17: The Keep – Stealing the Silver Cross
LV18: Legend – The Kitchen/ Unicorn Theme Reprise
LV19:Sorcerer - Abyss
Contact:
Roberto Carnier –
Creator of SOD:FR
roberto (at) carnier.com