By: Ian Summerfield

This is the level guide for Schabbs an Evil Lunitic

Please resort to this for any tips on the levels

Note: in almost any level the machine gun should be close by so you can survive until 
you can get the chain gun.

Level 1: Tunnel 1 Entryway

This level has many Dogs and guards in it with a few Mutants so finding a machine 
gun is top priority. Beware as you can get lost in the grass maze but you can find 
your way by following the blood spots. also the machine gun in the cave IS protected.


Level 2: Tunnel 2 Art Gallery

This level is also Known as an art gallery. better leave the guards behind glass 
a top priority! but the mutants behind the double glass walls Are top Fear factor! 
the secrets in this level are easy to find.

Level 3: Tunnel 3 Library

This is a little harder than level 2 but there are now Commandos and if defeated 
they may drop a machine gun. there are also many ambushes on this level so be careful.


Level 4: Tunnel 4 Treasure Vault

This level has many twists and turns in it but The exit to the secret level (WHICH 
YOU DON`T WANT TO GO TO) is in this level. also in the gold key room there is a secret 
in there that is nice especially because it has an extralife in it!

Boss 1: Tunnel Boss UberMutant

This Level will get your heart pumping as if the Guards, Commandos, and Mutants Don`t 
kill you the UberMutant WILL!!! there are also many secret health and ammo stores 
that will make you fell a little comforted.

Level 6: Swamp 1 Marsh Castle

this level is really big and Protected by Stalkers! these hard-to-see enemies like 
to sneak up on you and attack in groups! but you want to get the Key and get out 
of here FAST!!!

Level 7: Swamp 2 Secret legions

This level has an Ambush taktick to it so you may want kill the guards in the key 
rom when the doors are closed! Otherwise a horde of Commandos AND Stalkers will bumbard 
you!

Level 8: Swamp 3 Huge Castle

this is the Largest Castle you will ever come up against and theres another UberMutant 
in this level! plus there are tons of Dogs, Guards, Mutants, Stalkers and a few Commandos!


Level 9: Swamp 4 Enclosed Well

This level has many secrets and turns also has many Guards and Stalkers. but there 
is a secret Ambush waiting for you! There was one bug on this level I can`t explain 
but the textures Changed to Purple with the tunnel Texture on one block.

Boss 2: Swamp Boss Uber-Armor

This Boss is a little easier than the Ubermutant but NOT by much. The best tactic 
is to lure it into the health room so if you take any damage you will easily get 
healed.

Level 11: Labratory 1 Return of Uber Armor

This level also has an Uber Armor in it but with some easily found secrets this level 
should be a little easier.

Level 12: Labratory 2 Only in Sight

This level has a key that is scattered across a few other rooms. The best thing to 
do is to look for health and ammo Vaults for sustinance.

Level 13: Labratory 3 Just like Doom

In this level if you Don`t want to screw up you must Activate the secrets like in 
Wolfendoom. if you Haven`t played wolfendoom, go Download it first or just use the 
chicken secret in the first room.

Level 14: Labratory 4 Grass Maze

Sheesh! another maze level! just to tell you you do not have to go through this level 
as the Chicken secret is nearby. But if you DO decide to go in you may not come out 
soon... Just a Warning.

Level 15: Labratory 5 Military Complex

This level Has yet another Uber Armor on it! but that may not be the biggest problem 
as there are 131 enemies on this floor. and that means Baby:42 Medium:41 Hard: 47 
Boss: 1!!!!

Boss 3: Labratory Boss The Tankman

this level is home to the hardest Boss in the game! Lukily there is plenty of health 
and ammo...

Level 17: Mansion 1 The Mansion

This level is one of the Hardest levels in the game but it is very detailed and there 
are many enemies but health and ammo may be another story.

Boss 4: Mansion boss General Poopdeck

This level has many mutants and other threats on it also there are 2 Ubermutants 
that will attack you if you shot in Poopdeck's room along with many mutants.

Secret 1: Reaper Heaven Accessed from: (Level 4 commando Elevator)

this level is VERY HARD but if you used the 4th floor elevator with Commandos in 
it well their warning should have been enough.

Secret 2: The MinoTa... err..UberMutant's Lair accessed from: (Level 12 behind gold 
key location)

This level is home to 1 Ubermutant, 1 mutant and 14 Reapers! But just as a tip there 
IS a Chain Gun close by...

Boss 5: The Spirit World Dr. Schabbs

This level has many threats Including an Uber Armor a few reapers and Tons of Mutants! 
But this level Has many different Traits including a health/ammo hall.

Enemy List:

 Guard: these are mean but they are easy to overcome.

  Dog: fast, annoying, but easy to kill unless in groups.

 Commando: Just like doom all over again but these guys Drop Machine guns instead.


 Mutants: Sheesh! if only these jerks wern`t in here this game may actually be easy... 
NOT!

  Stalker: What are these Medievil enemies From HEXEN doing here? Oh well more gore 
for you!

 UberMutant: about Five of these will appear in the Game! But they GET HARDER EVERY 
TIME!

 Uber Armor: This Evil Experiment also Appears Five times in the game but is Not 
as hard as the Uber-
                                 Mutant.

 TankMan: This Brute Harbors 2 Chain guns and a Double fire Flame Thrower. Tankman 
INDEED!!!

 General Poopdeck:this is the Fourth and Second-to-last Boss! glad he just appears 
once!

 Doctor Schabbs: this evil Scientist is up to bat one last time but he has plans 
to make you goin him!

 
Item List

Dogfood: heals 4% health
Dinner: heals 10% health
Medkit: heals a hefty 25% health
Clip: Contains 8 ammo if found. but only 4 if dropped.
Ammo Box: Contains 25 bullets
Extralife: Heals 100% health, contains 25 ammo and rewards 1 life!
Machine gun: Comes with 6 ammo
Chain gun: the best weapon, comes with 6 ammo
Gold key: allows access to certain doors, dropped by Certain bosses
Silver key: allows access to certain doors
  Blood / bones: Heals 1% if health is under 10%
Spear of Destiny: the artifact that MUST be obtained to enter Schabbs' Lair!


Wolfenstein 3d was made by the folks at: Id Software and Apogee.
Thanks, for the game that started a new way to look at Video games!










