"Wolf3d Community Map Pack"

Title screen, VSWAP, and source code are hacked by
     Tricob.  Same goes for the demos and VSWAP, not
     to mention that "Scaremare" tune you hear on the
     title screen.

This contains 6 maps for each episode, and is done by
     the following DHW members:

Episode 1 - Tricob
Episode 2 - Levels 1, 2, 3, 4, and 10 by Thomas;
            Level 5 by Tricob
Episode 3 - Dean
Episode 4 - Levels 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 by Tricob;
            Level 10 by Dean
Episode 5 - WLHack
EPisode 6 - Level 1 by Thomas, Level 2 by Brian Lowe,
            Level 3 by Dean, Levels 4 and 5 by
            Tricob, and Level 10 by RonWOlf

Most of my levels are updates from my older add-on
     "Operation: Kill BJ!", aside from E1L1, E1L5,
     and E6L5, which are new.

The game has the Ammo Box added, along with wall
    images from Spear Of Destiny.  The "Dog Death"
    sound has also been changed, and a full-screen
    game window is now available (Statusbar intact).
    Note also that the "blockiness" of objects and
    walls up close isn't near as bad now, thanks to
    a couple of coding tips from Ripper.  :-)

I've included two batch files, WOLF and WARP, to
     enable the cheat codes and warp to different
     levels.  The WARP command is only useful in DOS
     Box or the Windows Command Prompt (or MS-DOS or
     FreeDOS, if you have it).

Thanks to everyone who made this mapset possible.
       You've all done good levels here, and that's
       one of the reasons I wanted this collection to
       be released;  good maps are useless if no one
       ever gets to play them.

This is Version 1.00, and still has a long list of
     bugs reminiscent of the original code.  Source
     code is available upon request, if anyone wishes
     to update the source.  Just E-Mail "KellyArbr"
     at AOL.COM.  A more permanent E-Mail address is
     "neotraditions" at WEBMAIL.CO.ZA.  That is, if
     Webmail continues to be more reliable than my
     Yahoo E-Mail was.  :-/

- Tricob.