
 
                           °°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
                           °°operation°°°°°°°°°±
                           °°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°±
                           °°°°°°°BODYCOUNT°°°°± 
                           °°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°±
                            ±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±

                             MANUAL SUPPLEMENT




 ±  How to install...

 Go to the drive which contains your BodyCount Install disk #1.
 ex. C> A:
 Execute the Install program.
 ex. A> install

 The install program must be run from the drive       --- NOTE
 which contains the install disk #1.

 Follow the menus for specifying where and how much to install.
 When you are ready to begin the installation, press F10.


 ±  Install types...
 
 Minimal: places only the necessary files on your hard drive.
 Regular: places the necessary files plus rendered sequences that
          appear when you change floors or expire.


 ±  Game Startup...

 To run standard BodyCount, enter "BC" in your installed directory.
 To skip the intro and end screens type "BC NOPICS".


 ±  Game Types...

 Difficulty 1: For novices.

 Difficulty 2: For those who have played before.

 Difficulty 3: Uhhh, this is hard.

 Random: Random play can be very challenging. There is
 nothing to keep you from getting stuck in an area that is
 closed off or has so many enemies that you think you can't
 kill them all without an H-Bomb. If you can do well on the
 Random Play type, consider yourself a Body Count Expert.

 Network: Enter a network floor and beat up on your co-workers.

 Network Teams: It's the Marketing Department vs. Shipping and 
                Receiving.

 Modem: A different type of harassing phone call.

 In the Body Count Manual, this feature is titled     --- NOTE
 Difficulty Level instead of Game Type.

  
 ±  Push Walls...

 There are many secret rooms hidden on each level of Body Count.  Each of 
 the secret rooms has a wall tile which can be moved in order to enter the
 room.  To open a push wall, press the Space Bar.
   

 ±  Game Notes and Victory...

 Game victory ? Kill Victor.

 Some tips on playing BodyCount:
      Booby traps or spontaneous human combustion ?
      FlameThrower in Arabic means "mother of all killing machines".
      Your Allies are very HEALTHy.
      Don't get too close to your own Grenade launch.
      Fire burns. 
      Why waste Good ammo on rats ?
      Swamp Creatures: shoot 'em UP.  
      Switch & Stay, not Stop Drop and Roll.

      
 ±  Ally usage...

 Follow mode: 
          Allies try to find you and if they do they
          try to stay with you no matter where you go.
          They are too preoccupied in this mode to do any
          shooting.
 Disperse/Attack mode:
          In this mode and your allies
          will engage enemies to the death if necessary.
 Ally switch (A):
          Change your position in the building by becoming
          one of your allies. You inherit their health,
          but you get to keep any guns/ammo you've already
          earned. 
 Switch and Stay (S): 
          Change to an ally, but the character you leave 
          behind will stay where you left him/her. Then
          they can ambush any enemies who wander by. Allies
          in stay  come out of stay on the next 
          toggle into follow mode.


 ±  AutoSave ...

 Auto Save is a handy feature that saves the game automatically
 just before you get taken to a new floor. Load from the slot
 named AutoSave from the main menu. You may not explicitly save
 to the AutoSave slot, only the program itself will write a game
 state there.


 ±  Quick Save option...
 
 You may use the F9 key as a Quick Save key. Each time you
 enter a new floor, first save a game from the main menu.
 The last game you saved from the main menu will be the one
 that the quick save key F9 saves to. 
 You can then Load this game from the main menu when desired.

 You must first have saved a game from the Main     --- NOTE
 Menu on the current floor so that F9 QuickSave
 has a file to write to.
 

 ±  Game Help...

 You can get a reminder of the default key presses when at
 the main menu screen. Just press 'H'.


 ±  Capstone Tech Support...

 If you get an error that you do not understand, you can call the Capstone
 Technical Support Department at 305-373-3770 between 9 AM and 6 PM Eastern
 Time.  Please make sure that you are at your computer and that it is up and
 running. 
