
"DEAD WORLD RISING" MANUAL

CONTENTS
0- Credits!
1- The Story
2-Your Arsenal
3- Your Enemies
4- Your Pick-ups
5- Things You Should Know (AKA Read this or you'll be sorry later!)

0-CREDITS!

"Dead World Rising" A new "DOOM" Adventure by R.S. DuHamel (AKA The Great Wasabi)

A Wolfenstein 3-D Mod using the "Final Solution" Version 3.0
Using content from "WolfenDoom", "TRAGEDY AT ISTANBUL III- EVIL IN IRON: Special 
'DOOM' Version", and "Schabbs 9000" 

Mod by R. DuHamel  (wasabi_zero2002 (at) yahoo.ca)
-"Final Solution"(Ver.1.0, 2.0, 3.0) by Tristan [NAME REDACTED] ([NAME REDACTED] (at) yahoo.com)

-"Wolfendoom" by AReyeP (Steve Walley) (areyep (at) iaa.com.au)
-"TRAGEDY AT ISTANBUL III- EVIL IN IRON: Special 'DOOM' Version"  By John Bucksnort 
(john_bucksnort (at) yahoo.com)
-"Schabbs 9000" by Kyle Fisher (?)
-"Wolfenstein 3-D", "Spear of Destiny", and "DOOM" by id Software


BEFORE YOU PLAY:  I chose "The Final Solution" as the platform to build my mod on, 
as it had many interesting features that I couldn't find in any other port of "Wolfenstein" 
or "Spear of Destiny".  I congratulate Mr. [NAME REDACTED] for his excellent work on "The 
Final Solution", and I hope he doesn't mind me using it.  I also wish to congratulate 
AReyep for his work on "Wolfendoom".  It was a great experience, and felt true to 
DOOM's nature.  Schabbs 9000 by Kyle Fisher was also quite good, and quite challenging, 
a feature I hoped I could generate in my own game.  Next, to Mr. Bucksnort.  The 
Special DOOM Edition of your "Evil In Iron" was every bit as good as "Wolfendoom" 
(I thought), and also true to DOOM itself, a game of which I am a major fan of. And 
last, but not least, those great guys at id Software, for creating Wolfenstein and 
DOOM in the first place.  Without them, this mod (and much of video game history) 
might not have been possible.  Rock on dudes!  

	Many things I borrowed and such, because I've only recently gotten into modding, 
and haven't yet got the hang of editing source codes (I'm only 16, I'm working on 
it!).  I have listed (hopefully) all the games I borrowed DOOM content from (and 
the game used for the base of the mod), but if you play this game, and see something 
that you yourself have created (please be honest), and you are not listed, please 
feel free to e-mail me at wasabi_zero2002yahoo .ca, and tell me.  I will try my best 
to see that you have credit for it.  And please enjoy the game!  

	Oh yeah, and unfortunately, due to the fact that I neither had access to a Boland 
C++ Compiler, nor the skills to operate one, I was unable to change the first sign-on 
screen, as well as the text after each level, and some other things I may have missed. 
 If anyone could help me with that, please feel free to e-mail me about it.  I would 
be very grateful.

 -R. DuHamel (The Great Wasabi!) 

PLEASE SEND ME FEEDBACK!!! E-mail the Great Wasabi! wasabi_zero2002 (at) yahoo.ca



1-THE STORY-

	There you were, fresh out of high school, looking for an exciting, and yet practical 
job.  A friend jokes to you about joining the military.  You briefly consider it, 
but the idea is quickly pushed aside for much more attainable goals.

	Then it happened.  By chance, or simply an act of fate, you just happened to notice 
an advertisement near your apartment.  

	     JOIN THE SPACE MARINES!  WE WANT YOU!

	That's it!  You'd always heard how great the Space Marines were, and of all the 
cool things they always got to do.  You finally decide to sign up. Why not?  Go places 
for free, be fed and clothed, and get rich quick.  And all you have to do is enlist 
part time. There's no wars or problems to worry about, all you have to do is take 
it easy.  Or so you thought.

	Five gruelling months later, your training is done.  They throw a uniform on you, 
slap an SMG in your hand, and before you know it, you find yourself being put on 
the first shuttle to the remote space colony LR-304, located on the recently terra-formed 
planet Mars.  You don't even get a chance to tell your folks good-bye.  On the trip 
there, you overhear what's going on:  supposedly there have been some odd goings-on 
at LR-304.  You hear something about "infestation", but think nothing of it.  You 
do remember something about the base being operated by UAC, that aerospace company. 
Was it United Aerospace Company?  Or Corparation?  It quickly leaves your mind.  
It's probably just a false alarm.  There couldn't REALLY be anything wrong, could 
there? 

	Days later (Boy that was sure quick!), the shuttle lands at  LR-304, and there is 
a rude awakening.  The second the airlock opens, the alarm sounds.  The other Marines 
go into a panic, and they all shove off their shoulder restraints, grab their guns, 
and bolt into the colony entrance at the order of the sergeant.  Except you.  Your 
shoulder restraints jam, and you find yourself trapped in your seat.  No one takes 
notice of you, and quickly you are alone on the shuttle.  Minutes later, you manage 
to pry the restraints off with the butt of your rifle.  The rifle cracks in your 
hand, and you discover you've broken part of the firing mechanism.  It's totally 
useless now.  You swear you'll kill the idiot who made those damn shoulder restraints. 
  

	You rush out the join your comrades, when you see a horrifying sight.  All of your 
comrades are dead. You see dozens of dead colonists, and upon examining them closer, 
you realize they've been dead for weeks.  No one is left except you.  You take back 
what you said about killing the idiot who made the shoulder restraints.  He (or she) 
saved your life.  For the time being at least.

	Well, here you are.  A Space Marine.  Alone in a place you've never heard of, and 
know nothing about.  As you turn to go back to the shuttle, the door inexplicably 
closes.  You try to open it, but the wiring for the button to open it is shot. You 
pull out your pistol, and brace yourself.  You'll just have to get through this damn 
hell-hole, and whatever is here is going to get a face full of lead if they decide 
to show themselves.  You have no idea what you are doing, but what the hell.  It 
can't be much worse than sitting around starving to death before anyone realizes 
something's gone terribly wrong.  Right?!  Nothing could be that terrible...You must 
now travel across a world corrupted by the greatest evil imaginable, to an uncertain 
fate...

	Good luck.  Believe me, you'll need it.    

2- YOUR ARSENAL-

	You only have your pistol and your bloody bare hands (complete with nice sharp knife) 
to start with, but some other weapons appear that will definitely help you.  Here's 
a complete list of your weapons.

 #1-Combat Knife:  You're advised not to use this is if you can.  It'll take out 
weak enemies, but others it won't even scratch.  If this is your last resort, you're 
in BIG trouble.


  #2-Pistol:  Your pistol is much better than the knife, but still isn't that great. 
 


 #3-SMG (Sub-Machine Gun):  You may find this is the weapon you might use most.  
It's pretty good on ammo, and packs a punch that stops most enemies in their tracks. 
It pops up all the time.

  #4-PCU (Plasma Conversion Unit) Rifle:  An energy rifle that will make short work 
of almost any enemy.  It works by converting conventional ammunition into quick bursts 
of plasma.  This weapon is the final version of the one UAC was developing in "Wolfendoom" 
(Nod to AReyeP!).   It has become standard issue for most Space Marines.  However, 
it ploughs through ammo very rapidly. Be warned; this weapon may jam and disappear 
for no reason if you keep firing it too much.  If it does, you'll just have to find 
it again...which sucks, because on LR-304, this weapon is quite rare.

#5-Chaingun:  Ah, yes.  Your good friend from DOOM.  It will shred any enemy, and 
when you have it, it just makes you feel so invincible.  For added effect, when firing 
it, laugh maniacally.  HAHAHAHA!!!! Er, sorry.  Unfortunately, continuous repeated 
firing of this weapon will cause it to vanish like the PCU Rifle.  A very rare find!


3-YOUR ENEMIES-

	Well, if a game gives you guns, that means there's stuff to kill.  Here's the hapless 
SOBs that you'll encounter on your journey.  (Some of them aren't so hapless...)


 

FORMER HUMAN (MARINE)-  Most of the time, these guys can't cause you a lot of trouble. 
 In groups, or in your face, they can do some serious damage, however...Drop a clip 
of ammo when toasted.

 

FORMER SERGEANT-  These badasses now pack a SMG instead of the good old Shotgun. 
 Toast this guy to get either his SMG or a clip of ammo.

 

LOST SOUL-  Hardly worth wasting ammo on.  One shot will send this dude back where 
he belongs.  Only a problem in massive groups, or if you have no ammo.

 

IMP-  Move fast, and search you out in seconds after realizing your presence.  Drops 
ammo when killed.  

Keep your eyes open.  Enemies cause much more damage at close range, so check those 
corners!

BOSSES

	These are the big meanies you'll encounter every 5 levels, which means there are 
4.  Ha-ha.  Here they are in order you'll face them...

 

FORMER COMMANDO-  Once a proud Space Marine, now a putrescent putz packing a powerful 
perforator (Whoa! Alliteration overload!).  He's not the sharpest knife in the drawer, 
so he won't try hard to find you.  Just dance around him, and shred him like there's 
no tomorrow!  Appears on level 5.

 

BARON OF HELL-  Well, well, well, if it isn't Mr. Baron O' Hell?  Nasty as ever. 
 Tougher and slightly brighter than the Former Commando.  Appears on level 10.

 

ARCH-VILE-   This goddamn pain in the you-know-what appears on level 15.  A challenge 
to take out.  

THE DAEMONITE-  Nothing is known about this strange new enemy.  Take caution when 
you find him, he's bound to be really tricky.  Appears at the end on level 20.  Good 
luck!


4- YOUR PICKUPS-

	Of course, the Space Marines and the colonists left behind plenty of ammunition 
and items before they met a fateful end.  Here are the ones you'll find:

 
Blue Vial (Health Bonus)-  In DOOM, they gave you 1 health, and pushed the normal 
100 health beyond 100.  In "Dead World Rising", each restores 10 health, and they 
will push your normal HP (Health Points) beyond the normal 100 percent.  You have 
a max HP of 200.
											

 
Stimpack-  A small package with a red cross.  It contains steroids that give you 
a quick boost of health.  Each one restores 10 health.
											

 
MedPack-  A large package that has straps on the front of it, and a big red cross. 
 Each one of these babies restores 25 health.
											

 
Armour Vest-  These will protect you from enemy shots, but they will only withstand 
a few hits.  They're the blue vests.  When you get hit after picking up one of these, 
you may notice that on occasion your health jumps up.
											

 

Ammo Clip-  If you find one just lying around, these give you 8 shots.  If you collect 
one from a downed foe, they only replenish 4 ammo.  You have a max ammo count of 
200.

											

 

Ammo Box-  Looks like the MedPack, but has a picture of a bullet on it.  Gives 25 
bullets.
											

 
1Up-  You'll know these when you see them, because they say '1Up' right on them. 
 They're blue.  Gives you 
1 extra life.
											

Keys-  There are four keys.  You need them to open locked doors throughout the LR-304 
colony.

  Yellow KeyCard

 Blue KeyCard

 Red Skull Key

 Blue Skull Key


"Treasure"-  There is no treasure in the traditional sense.  But there are items 
that you can collect of value that give points. They're mainly valuable Space Marine 
equipment that lays scattered around the facilities at LR-304.  Here are some of 
the things you should look for:

Armour Helmet-  It gave you 1% armour in DOOM.  It now gives you 100 points.

Light-Amplification Goggles- In DOOM, they let you see perfectly in darkened places. 
 They now provide you with 500 points.

Red Skull- In DOOM, was a special key.  Now a mysterious demon object that rewards 
you with 1000 points.

Yellow Skull- In DOOM, was a special key.  Now a mysterious demon object that rewards 
you with a whopping 5000 points! 

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW...   (AKA Read this or you'll be sorry later!)

-The barrels in this game can be exploded.  However, they cause no damage (good thing!). 
 If you see barrels blocking your way, blast 'em!

-The secret areas are really well hidden for the most part.  Good luck finding them! 
 If it's hard to find, it must have some really good stuff in it...You'll recognize 
a secret area when you see this wall inside it...

   

It has an anime girl on it! KAWAII! (Which means "cute!") Anywho, the vertical scribbles 
on the right-hand side are the Japanese characters for "konnichi wa", which means 
"good afternoon", or more commonly, "hello".  There, you just learned some Japanese. 
 E-mail me for some nice embarrassing Japanese insults to mock your arch-enemies 
and annoying relatives!  Hee hee.  Some secrets also have another anime wall, too.


-Keep and eye out for doors accompanied by signs saying "MedLab" and "Armoury".  
They contain valuable items, and are usually free of enemies.  They look like this...


     

-This is sort of a mistake, but if your health falls below 40%, walk over dead Marines, 
candles, and some other stuff on the floor to gain health!

-The exit to Level 8 is hidden.  If you couldn't find it, stop beating yourself over 
the head with that frozen salmon.  I'm a tricky SOB, okay?  }:)

-To get the most from the DWR experience, play with no codes, and in hard or super-hard. 
 Hee hee.


I busted my lazy ass for almost five months straight, working with a brain-dead computer, 
compiling cool textures, and trying hard to make my own, to produce this masterpiece. 
 Well, I think of it as a masterpiece.  My friend told me "Roger! It's just really 
f***ing hard!".  I'll bet that Tristian spent much longer on "The Final Solution", 
and for that, I thank him, and all  the guys I borrowed stuff from.  Keep up the 
good work, guys!   ^_^  Anywho, this is my first half-decent Wolf3D mod, and I hope 
you'll enjoy it.  Hope to hear from you!  Later!

-THE GREAT WASABI 

Thanks for reading this super-important document.   Tell me what you thought about 
the 
game or anything you like...   wasabi_zero2002 (at) yahoo.ca

VISIT THE DOOM OASIS!  http://www.angelfire.com/de3/doom_oasis/ 
Don't forget to stop by the DOOM II: The Wrath of Abaddon section!

And keep your eyes open for the upcoming DOOM mod, DOOM II: The Wrath of Abaddon! 
 Brought to you by Team Armageddon.  
