In the 1980's, when the Apple II computers were still going quite ahead of time, there was a hacked version of MUSE Software's "Castle Wolfenstein" which was named "Castle Smurfenstein". This TC of mine is planned to be the 3D counterpart of that hacked game to make the Wolfenstein Odyssey a full circle. The characters are based on the "Castle Smurfenstein" game and nothing else. Please see the "Castle Smurfenstein" page in this website for details on this game of the past.

The graphics below show how things are going for me. I've got most of the animation ready, and only have to make some new walls and good levels to match them. The only thing I desperately need is motivation! If anyone is interested in seeing my project finished, please email me with some opinions on this TC or other creations of mine. You might think I'm stupid, but this really helps, spiritually.

Without any support, uploading the Demo will be as far as I will go!

Read the "Read Me" file in the Demo folder to get the full version when it's ready!


Story
(from the original "Castle Smurfenstein" game)

During the cold winter of 1946 former leaders of the third reich met in Argentina to discuss plans for regaining their former glory. They knew that for any plan to succeed other nations would have to lose their will to fight. They decided to create a cartoon character to embody the ideas of niceness and peacefulness and called it a SMURF.

SMURF stood for Secret Military Underground Resistance Force. They planned to infect the children of enemy nations with their peaceful ideas. And so it began.

Now in the present their plan is almost complete, and they are starting their propaganda campaign in the bastion of freedom, the United States of America.

You, Smurfbutcher Bob, were captured while trying to destroy the Smurf's precartoon ancestors. You have been taken to their Ontario headquarters, Castle Smurfenstein, for interrogation. You must escape, kill as many of the blue bastards as possible, and steal the plans to operation Smurfkreig. If you fail hordes of smurfs will sweep across the world spewing peace slogans and pumping people full of bullets.

When you were being brought to the castle you were able to talk one of your Canadian guards into giving you his gun (not too hard, eh).

You can't fail :

YOU MUST ESCAPE
YOU MUST WARN THE WORLD
YOU MUST GET HOME IN TIME FOR DINNER.