APOGEE ANNOUNCES A LANDMARK NEW SHAREWARE GAME

TM 

WOLFENSTEIN 3-D 

Copyright ° 1992 Id Software 

Wolfenstein 3-D is simply a technology breakthrough! The first person perspective 3-D gameplay you'll be 
viewing is the fastest of any PC game — much faster than that seen in Origin's The Stygian Abyss! 

Incredible Sound Blaster digitized sound effects are used throughout the game. The shareware version has 
just a limited sampling of digitized effects. To get ALL of the digitized effects, you must buy the full 
trilogy. Sound Blaster Pro owners will hear the digitized effects in STEREO! 

The story: You're William J. "B.J." Blazkowicz, the Allies' bad boy of espionage and a terminal action 
seeker. Your mission was to infiltrate the Nazi fortress Castle Hollehammer and find the plans for 
Operation Eisenfaust, the Nazi's blueprint for building the perfect army. Rumors are that deep within the 
castle the diabolical Dr. Schabbs has perfected a technique for building a fierce army from bodies of the 
dead. It's so far removed from reality that it would seem silly if it wasn't so sick. But what if it were true? 

You were never given the chance to find out! Captured in your attempt to grab the secret plans, you were 
taken to the Nazi prison, Castle Wolfenstein, for questioning and eventual execution. Will you be able to 
escape and finish your world-saving mission? 

As an escaped prisoner in a Nazi war prison, you will move smoothly through a 3-D world full of amazing 
detail and animation. Unlike other 3-D games, you'll move SMOOTHLY through a sensational and realistic 
3-D environment, with intelligent moving guards and opponents. 

This is a high-action game. Use your rapid fire machine gun to mow down a line of enemies, or sneak up 
on a guard with your knife so you don't waste your limited ammunition. Id Software, creators of 
Commander Keen, have broken new ground with Wolfenstein 3-D. 

So impressive is this game that several of the TOP retail game publishers wanted to publish Wolfenstein 3-D 
commercially. We're talking the "biggies" — like Sierra, Electronic Arts, Origin Systems, and others! 

Exciting Features 

★ Intense and mood-setting Ad Lib music throughout the entire game. 

★ Incredible digitized effects for Sound Blaster and Disney Sound Source. 

★ Fastest 3-D VGA animated full-screen wide game available for IBM PC! 

★ Play with keyboard, joystick, mouse or Gravis GamePad. 

★ Save and restore games, plus quick-save and quick-load hot keys. 

★ Note: Must be played on an 80286 or better machine. Does not run on XT systems. 

PARENTAL WARNING: Wolfenstein 3-D, due to its intense, realistic visuals, is recommended for children 
above 12 years of age. For younger players we recommend parental approval. We have voluntarily rated 
this game PC-13, which equates to violence seen in a PG-13 movie. 

HOW TO ORDER 

1) First trilogy (three full episodes) for $35 (plus $4 shipping). 

2) Get the first trilogy, plus a second trilogy for a total of $50 (plus $4 shipping). In other words, for an 
extra $15 you can double the size of the game with a whole new set of levels! (Bought separately, the 
second trilogy is $20.) The second set of levels provides an entirely unique mission, with new level 
designs and new "boss" enemies to overcome. You cannot play the second trilogy unless you have the 
first trilogy. The first trilogy price ($35) includes the game engine that lets you also play the second, 
alternate trilogy. 


