                          VSVGAED 1.0

VSVGAED is for editing the VGAGRAPH.* file. Any item, except
the image dimensions table, can be replaced. The program cannot
yet show endscreens and fonts, but they can be replaced anyway.
!!!Be careful when you change anything. You may ruin your mod!!!

The controls are, from top downwards:

  HELP          :See this helpfile.
  LOG           :See a log of changes.
  Open VGAfile  :Open a VGAGRAPH, VGAHEAD and VGADICT file.
                   The program decides which palette to use
                   for pictures, wolfenstein or spear.
  Open palette  :-for use in the program.
  W             :Return to the Wolfenstein palette.
  File>         :Open a file to replace the selected chunk,
                   picture, palette or raw data as demanded.
                   Endart isn't imported but is edited as text.
  App>          :Import a Picture or a Demo from another vgafile
                  (Start a new VSVGAED program, select the
                   wanted item there, click the App button in the
                   old program. The item then is copied):
                  1: Open the vga file to be changed.
                  2: Start a new program with an export vga file.
               -> 3: Select an old item to be changed.
              |   4: Select a  new item in the export file.
              |   5: Click the App button in the old program.
              |   6: USE the imported item.
              |_     repeat from 3 if more items.
  USE           :Do the replacement. If you don't like it:
  UNDO          :the latest change.
                   An imported chunk always replaces the chunk
                   selected in the list, if possible.

  Export selected  :Save the selected chunk in the proper format:
                     picture (with the palette in use),
                     palette, text, raw data.
  Save chunks list :Save the chunks list.

  Save to game     :Save the VGAGRAPH and VGAHEAD files to the 
                     game directory, possibly make a backup copy
                     (file+'bk') of the originals.
                     The VGADICT file will remain unchanged.
  Restore game     :Reinstall the original files, possibly
                     delete the backup files.

  Add new item     :Add a picture, endscreen or text/endart to
                     the vgagraph file. Bear in mind that any
                     addition demands a RECOMPILATION OF THE EXE!
                     So add only if you KNOW WHAT YOU ARE DOING!
                     Following Floedit, any item is added as the
                     last of its kind, and the chunks sequence 
                     may be rearranged, removing all 'Null' items.

A click on a line in the chunks list will select the item,
and its hex start address and size is shown below.
The chunks come in various types:

  Image dims    :Maintained by the program and not to edit.
  Font          :Two fonts size 10 and 13.
  Picture       :Images and their width and height.
  Null          :Not usable.
  Endscreen     :DOS-like screen in a format unknown to me.
  Palette       :Spear of Destiny contains several palettes.
  Demo          :Game demo, with level number.
  Endart        :Metatext with pictures shown in the game

Pictures must be imported in BMP format, of any size but they
  must not be larger than 320x200 pixels, and the compressed
  size must not exceed 64 Kbytes. This depends on the picture,
  palette and VGADICT data. Just give it a try.
  If needed, the colors will be sampled to the nearest colors
  in the palette used, and the picture will be clipped to 
  dimensions divisible by 4.
Other item types (but not endart) will be imported as raw data.

Fonts:  Use the WSF font editor (available at www.wolfnode.de).
Endscreens: Use the ScreenEditor(available at www.wolfnode.de).
Demos:   To record a demo, start Wolfenstein with parameter 
           "goobers" or Spear with "debugmode", and hold down
            the <TAB> key as you see the startup screen until
            you get an inputbox asking for the level to record.
Endart:  or TEXT in Spear is a normal text and may be edited
            as such. for Editing there are some commands
            worth knowing:
 ^P[ENTER]           Start new page, MUST be the first command.
 ^C<hex digit>           Change text color to number in palette
 ^G<y>,<x>,<pic>[ENTER]  Draw a graphic and push margins.
                            y,x in pixels, pic is chunk number.
 ^L<x>,<y>               Locate to a specific spot,
                            x in pixels, y in lines.
 ^E[ENTER]               End of this layout, all pages.

---------------------------ooooooo-----------------------------

          I will thank ID for releasing the source files,
         and Floedit for providing the information above.


                Sorry about the short help text
                but I trust that those who dare
                 tamper with the VGAGRAPH file
                   know what they're doing.

                          Vincent,

                    http://vincentius.dk
                      mail (at) vincentius.dk
