IMPRISONED version 1.0 FULL VERSION
TC BY REDWOLF GAMES
E-mail: Tornado198883990 (at) aol.com
Build Time: About a month, all told...
Version History:
0.1- Early Stages of GFX, VGAGRAPH, GAMEMAPS
0.2- Maps (E1M1-3 + secret), GFX(several), early code completed
0.3- Coding compiled and prerelease version to come (E1M4 unmapped)
0.4- E1M4 mapped, discovered E1 secret crashed system... LOTS of bug fixing
0.5- More GFX editing done, all of E1 mapped, various touchups to maps (further fixing 
of maps), E1 bug testing, writing of readme file, ENDART began, recompiled code (praying 
it doesn't crash)
0.6- Both ENDART's done, HELPART done, more mapping
0.7- More maps done (E2M1-2 + secret)
0.8- Schabbs replaced, map touchups
0.9- More maps finished, rejected maps from my other projects ported
1.0- Uber-long map testing session

Advertisement:
Are you tired of downloading a whole set just for 4 or 5 levels? Tired of levels 
that present little challenge on a high difficulty? Tired of levels that are so hard 
you break your own keyboard in agony? Of course you are. Too bad we can't do anything 
about it. At least you can escape through 20 levels of Nazi prison mayhem in hopes 
of freedom. Some of you will make it, others will become casualties in this war we 
fight. Nobody ever said this was an easy task. IMPRISONED... 1 man can escape, but 
can he make it all the way?

Story:
Jan 15, 1948
You have been captured and taken to a Nazi POW camp. The camp is several floors underground 
and houses a large regiment of Nazi soldiers. Now you must escape the camp at ALL 
costs. You call out to an officer in a sick wounded voice. He walks in to beat you 
down and keep you quiet but as he does you punch him in the stomach. He gasps for 
breath and screams aloud as you snap his neck. Footsteps approach from down the hallway. 
You decide it's now or never and grab the dead man's knife and gun. (Yes it's simple 
but what do you expect?)

Nazi Killing Utensils:
KNIFE-
This is a simple knife. It's good for stabbing and not much else. Only use this if 
you're sneaking up on a soldier or out of ammunition.
HANDGUN-
A standard German handgun. This is a high caliber pistol capable of killing a standard 
soldier quickly.
MACHINE GUN-
You haven't seen one in prison here, but you've heard in your mission briefing that 
these can completely rip a human apart.
GATLING GUN-
This is a secret, well-hidden prototype designed for maximum damage. This gun is 
made to fire at an unbelievably fast rate.

Rumors:
While staying in prison, you've overheard a few conversations and rumors. Some of 
these may be true, others are useless.

"I hear that on the ground floor of the prison, there's an elite soldier directly 
from Hitler's personal army."

"There's a hidden elevator somewhere that leads to a hedgemaze. Gotta have something 
to keep the soldiers entertained."

"It's been said that at the prison's outside checkpoint, there's the prison leader, 
Fritz Schliemann. He patrols the only way out of the prison."

"Hitler plans to execute all prisoners within a week or so. The only way to free 
them all is to kill Schliemann."

"Hitler's elite soldier keeps a prototype Gatling Gun hidden on his floor. He uses 
it to kill soldiers for target practice."


Featuring:
20 New Levels by Redwolf
"1337" Source Code Hacking by Redwolf (if you don't understand you aren't a hacking 
type of person!)
Hilarious Exit Messages (Look for 'em all!)
BLACK Warning Screen
ILM code changed (you can figure it out.... HINT: The letters are in the title AND 
it's a monster in DooM!)
Gray/Red/Black Statbar
Statbar and Face Carried Over From OSII by ME!
New Graphics
Other Special Fun Stuff

My Magical Editors:
Mapedit (Oh yes, thank you God for this tool!)
Wolfedit (Absolutely necessary)
Notepad (HELPART/ENDART)
Borland Compiler (Forgot the version but still... ahh yes!)
Floedit (Only to mod the menu/startup gfx or insert sprites too friggin big for Wolfedit 
to save)
XWE (Taking images from Duke3d/Doom/Blood, all of which were not used, so i'm just 
advertising a utility)
Giffy (.BMP to .GIF and back, ESSENTIAL for Wolfedit and Floedit to work together 
quickly and easily!)
Windows Wordpad (Compilation of IMPRISONED readme)

Acknowledgements:
MCS- Master code hacker who wrote some of the community's best source code tutes...

Brian Lowe- Poster of my amazing TC's to the page you got Imprisoned from.
Wolf3d Dome Source Code Tutes- These little things helped me immensely.
Waterdog- He left Sniper Studios, forcing much change, and as bad karma type punishment 
for his becoming burnt out on Wolf3d, HIS EMAIL CRASHED! (mwahahahaha cruel ironic 
retribution is mine!)
You- But of course. You play my TC of questionable quality and hopefully enjoy it. 
Thanks much one and all!
Fontfreak.com and other font pages- Here I got all those SWEET fonts I so enjoy using 
on all my TC's.
And finally Tornado would like to thank... Tornado. Of the 3 (currently) TC's I have 
done, I feel like this one is one of the most fun. This whole thing began as a side 
project between working on OS2 and OS3's release dates (I try to do at least one 
TC a year). 