                           Making a new descriptions file.

         I will use the game 'Guns and Glory' an an example. Because not much
         is normal here it will be somewhat of a challenge (as you can see,
         I did it). Pretend you know nothing about the game.
Tools:   You have the game and VSMAPED and VSWAPED.

The palette. 
         Start VSMAPED. Many items are weirdly colored. This is a sign that
         the game uses its own palette which you must obtain, thus:
         Start VSWAPED/Palette Tool. Follow the instructions in the help file,
         choose a palette wall and capture the palette, make the entries
         multiples of 4 and save the palette as fex. 'G&G.pal'.
         It can be done in 7 minutes. Load your palette and see the difference.

Structures.
         Start VSMAPED with 'G&G.pal'. Load a suitable starting file, fex.
         'wolfenstein.txt'.
         If there are floor and ceiling structures in the game, you will be
         asked to set the ranges. It is not at all difficult because ordinary
         wall images normally come in pairs in the image list.
         Start 'MISC/edit descriptions file' on the first line and put in
         the numbers 'walls from','Structures'(from) and 'Upto'(the number
         after the last structure). Press 'USE' and 'SAVE'(descriptions) under
         a new name fex. 'G&G.txt'. So far so good.

Saved games
         A quick test shows that VSMAPED can't handle saved games in this mod
         so feel free to delete all saved game entries in the G&G.txt
         (lines with '*' as character no. 5). I you aren't interested in saved
         games at all, don't worry about them. Now to some hard work.

Overview. 
         The floor codes look plausible and also the walls. They should indeed.
         But the elevator must have moved to a new location. Start 'MISC/edit
         descriptions file. The doors look wrong and in the image list you can
         see that there must be at least 17 kinds of doors. We will take care
         of that later. The floor/ceiling structures look sensible.
         The 3D window confirms that the walls and floors/ceilings are ok but
         the doors are all purple, because they are not where they used to be.
         The corner cells in a level may control light, shading, or 
         weather phenomena. The meaning is unique for each game and I won't
         discuss it further. You may do some experiments of your own.

         But the objects part looks like a total mess! In this case it really
         is, hands with weapons sticking up from the ground!
         In 'normal' mods most of the features are taken care of by VSMAPED
         but for this mod you can make your life a little easier if you write
         'new' in the comment in the first line. Then all described objects
         will be symbolized by empty squares and you are not confused by
         irrelevant symbols. But you must make some corrections by hand.
         When you are done giving symbols to all items, you may remove 'new'.
         In this 'abnormal' mod the entry names for objects can't be trusted,
         so start the descriptions file edit, then the statistics window will
         show all individual entries, and just a number if it is unlisted.

         Tip: objects standing on 'deaf guard' floorcodes are probably guards. 
         MARK the start positions and go through a few levels. There are levels
         with more than one so they too must have moved.
         Now get an impression of which items are used in the game:
         Get the graphics list (click EDIT and drag down the lists). Click the
         single arrow button at the list. Items used in the level will be
         covered with a square, white for solids, pink for objects. 
         Those listed in the descriptions are big, those not listed are small.
         Go through the levels using the 'down' arrow key. At end you see all
         the items used in the game. Quite a lot, isn't it? But don't despair.

The mystery box.
         On each level you see one or more rectangular boxes containing
         unlisted items. It seems to be some sort of copyright stamp.
         They are not important for the performance of the game.
             
Start positions.
         Again, only one start position to a level. Looking at the statistics
         you see that the positions 1-4 is just such a group of 4. Get the
         graphics list, choose an item here, write 'Start position' in the
         descriptions and choose a symbol. If the image number is positive,
         set it to zero (auto) as this type of item is invisible. Click 'USE'.
          As a bonus, item no. 5 is often near a wall that looks like a
         staircase, and there is mostly just one in a level, so probably it is
         an end-of-level trigger. USE it with the red up arrow symbol.
         Rename old start positions. Finally, SAVE the descriptions file.

Recording.
         You are now in position to record any item.
         I shall give just a few examples, leaving the rest to you.
         Normally VSMAPED knows which items are objects and which are actors,
         but being a 'not normal' mod it is handled otherwise here:
         1. All items WITH AN IMAGE are considered static objects except:
         2. items with 1 or 2 neighbours with identical names are actors
            (identical means: no direction qualifiers like 'E' in the name).
            Then the guards will look in the right direction in the 3D window,
            and the statistics will be less bulky. 
         3. Some isolated actors must be pointed out by adding 50 to the name.
         Impenetrable actors (torches fex.) will be preceded by 59 (50+9).

        *The walls 1 and 2 look conspiciously like an elevator. Put one of each
         near the start on level 1, save the maps (with backup), and start
         the game. Yes! Wall 1 IS an elevator, wall 2 is just a 'fake' one.
         Exit the game. Back in VSMAPED, RESTORE the game to normal but keep
         the backup. Start 'Edit descriptions'. Choose wall 1 and write
         'Elevator' and choose the elevator symbol. Press 'USE'. Do the same
         for the fake elevator. Rename the old elevators. Wall no. 5 appears
         always close to an elevator and looks like an 'Elevator rail' wall.
         Write 'Rails, elevator' for wall no. 5 and choose a fitting symbol:
         no. 1038. 'elevator' must start in lower case, to avoid confusion.
         Mark the items that separate different floor codes in the maps,
         they probably are doors. A nice collection of 144-177, 17 doors!
         You can go through all the items, see what they look like or what
         happens when you walk into them. It can be quite funny.

        *As an example, take object no. 64 and put one near start and save.
         DON'T OVERWRITE THE BACKUP! Start the game. It looks like Baby Hans
         in a gokart. He is not aggressive but if YOU kill him he disappears,
         leaving a blue key.
         Back, write '54HansKart blue key' and choose a symbol fex. the grey
         pacman. Now look for him in the image list. After some searching you
         find him as sprite no. 1576. Click the image. As he leaves a
         key he should be classified as 'key' (4), but being an actor also,
         write the number 54 (50+4) ahead of his name and USE the information.
         Fine, he shows up when you move the mouse over him. 
         What's more: in level 28, 'Wolfenkart', you see our friend and his 7
         siblings lined up for a race. Get the other ones, they are like him. 
         RESTORE the game and SAVE descriptions regularly.

        *Invisible objects are not so obvious. You do have the start positions,
         but there are also turning points, secret doors and various triggers.
         It will take some guesswork. There are fex. the hands from below, and
         if you pick one and insert it in the map, nothing is seen in the game.
         As it is outdoors it can hardly be a secret door but if your guess is
         'turning point', there will be no harm trying out this possibility.
         MARK the suspects. Good, they make a group of 8 items, no. 30-37.
         Now, using some qualified guesses, you can attach directions to them
         all, and it works! For good measure, rename the old turning points
         to whatever you like. Secret doors are almost always inside a wall.
         All other invisible objects I call 'triggers' to be examined later.

        *A guard and his like may be unfriendly and I suggest you build a cage
         for him out of hard objects and have plenty of weapons and power-ups
         close at hand. Live to get a picture and find him in the image list.
         Superguards, fex. Hans, are easy. They are unique and have one single
         entry. The same goes for pacmen and the ghost. For an ordinary guard
         there are 24 entries: standing/running, skill 1,3,4 in groups of 4
         (always facing E,N,W and S). Dogs have 12 entries because they are
         always running. After having identified the guard look for the images
         6,4,2,0 for standing, 14,12,10,8 for walking, counted from the start
         of his images. Skill doesn't matter for images. When you are assigning
         skills to the entries, take your time and use the game.

         In this way proceed with identifying the remaining entries, find
         the keys and their corresponding doors, find teleports and triggers.
         To discover the (not always obvious) nature of an item (object/actor),
         fill level 1 with it, start the game, and note the error message
         saying 'too many...(OBJECTS or ACTORS)'.

Totals.  The maximum totals of static objects, actors and doors in each level
         are important. If one or more is exceeded, the game will surely crash.
         Normally they are 399, 149 and 64, respectively.
         In this game I know they are 999, 499 and 512. If it always were so...
         The totals are unreliable until you have identified all items.

Saved games.
         If you want to work with saved games of some mod, You should follow
         the procedures above, only insert items, run the game, and obtain a
         saved game from which you identify entries, and record them in lines
         with '*' as character no. 5.

                                     Good Luck
                                      Vincent