GRAVENSTEIN 3000            (!!You MUST play on Death incarnate to get
Survival Guide.                           the fullness!!)


CONTENTS-
1. Story Line
2. Level Description
3. Game help
4. Tech help
5. Makers Notes
6. Credits and thank you's



CHAPTER 1.
After destroying the secret nazi base in the underground graveyard, you
walk to your commanders head office. He tells you about an old castle
that is being used again by nazi's. They have took the remains of Hans
Grosse, and remade him...half human, half machine. Thing is, they made
5 of them. And put one for security after each 10 floors. On the top
floor of 60, is where the boss of it all is...General Spittvok. You must
go to this castle, kill Spittvok, and his 5 henchmen...Just before you
leave, he tells you the place is full of guards. "Good luck, you're gonna
need it!" he tells you.




CHAPTER 2.
Episode 1: This area is very old and run down, nothing much around it.
Security is fairly low as well.
Episode 2: Sorta the same as Episode 1, but there are more guards and 
rumor has it that there a few Mutants hanging around...
Episode 3: This is the Prison of the castle, a lot of jail cells.
Episode 4. This is where people on death row get killed. Lot's of SS's 
around. WARNING! THIS EPISODE CONTAINS MUCH BLOOD AND GORE. NOBODY
UNDER 8 SHOULD PLAY THIS.
Episode 5: This is Security Central. Lot's of  Officers around.
Epidode 6: A very rich and fancy 10 floors. It's also where Spittvok is.




CHAPTER 3.
G3000 was made to be very hard. And you may find it too hard. Here are a
few hints to help you if this happens...

1. Leave ammo and health around, so if you're hurt, and there's no health
around, you can run back and get it.
2. Don't use the Chaingun too much, it uses a lot of ammo.
3. Kill first-Think later.
If your having a LOT of trouble, here is a cheat that will help:
Press ILM at the same time, and you will get a 100 everything. Also,
press BAT at the same time, and you will get a helpful message.




CHAPTER 4.
Here is a problem, answer help guide for those tech problems:
Q: There is no sound.   A: Make sure the sound is on, and the speakers are
properly plugged in, and its turned up.
Q: The game runs slow.   A: Make sure your wolfenstein is the only thing
running. And/or get more gis, and more hardrive space!!
If this does not help, read your wolfenstein 3d manual, and/or go to
ID's web site at, www.idsoftware.com.



CHAPTER 5.
It took about 7 months to make G3000. There are no new graphics, and no
source code changes. YOU MUST PLAY ON 'DEATH INCARNATE' to get the 
fullness. If you don't, this add-on will really suck. If you need more
help, e-mail this add-on's co-maker. E-mail is, 
brian (at) brlowe.globalnet.co.uk

Or, check out my club, the URL is, 
http://clubs.yahoo.com/clubs/wolf3dandquakeclub

The very first was left the same, well, I made it harder, its level 1
version 1.1.




CHAPTER 6.
Maker: Thomas Hubert.
Co Maker: Brian Lowe. (Made the last 10 levels)

Thank you to: My dad and mom for being the best parents in the world-
Rage Against the Machine for being the best band-The Corporate Ministry
for being the best wrestling thing-Brian Lowe, for just helping out-
ID Software, for being the best software company ever!!-And you! for
taking the time to read this, and play Gravenstein 3000.


Thomas Hubert.
7/29/99.

