* * * Wolfenstein 3-D: The Deluxe Edition v1.99m (Three-level demo) * * *

Update - v1.99m.  Made the game easier to control, and fixed a number of problems, 
including the rain/snow bug, the raycaster "gaps between walls" bug, and the "blood 
from enemies keeps the door from closing" bug.

Thanks to Andy and Chris for providing many of the bugfixes.  No matter how advanced 
a coder I get, you folks always seem to impress me.  :-)

My plan is for this to be my last update before re-writing the game's code from the 
beginning.  The game engine has bugs galore, most of which I can't resolve in its 
current form.  It's easier just to start the code over.

The self-running demos don't work correctly anymore - cause unknown (I've disabled 
the demos for now).  Feel free to tinker with the code and find out why.  :-)

The "moon" in Level 3 was sometimes drawn outside the game's view screen border (depending 
on the angle you were pointed).  That resulted in "moons" appearing where they shouldn't, 
and crashes (triggered by rotating to a particular angle) in graphics modes like 
1280x1024.  It occurred whether or not you were "outdoors".  Thanks go to "Havoc" 
for pointing me to the bugfix.

Most other bugs in this demo are fixed now too, including the light-shading bug when 
Quick-loading a saved game.  Also, when you're killed by a booby-trapped Ammo Crate 
or the "End Game" option, the game no longer rotates your view to a non-existent 
enemy.

The Pushwalls, doors, and sound effects behave a little bit differently with the 
"WolfDX features" turned on.  The "enemies bleed what shot" feature is also added.


Finally, there's some ambient sound in the game now.  Note that the low-pitched laugh 
and the "coyote" were both done by me.  I was also the voice of the new "dog death" 
sound, believe it or not.  And I did my own version of the brown guard's new "Ow!" 
death scream.

Story:

The seeds of evil are planted.  And what they grow is both bleak and horrific.

Adolf Hitler commands Germany, and does so with mad, twisted inhibitions.  He strives 
to rule the world, and rumors say he's done more than break the laws of man - he's 
breaking the rules of nature as well.  He has hired a Doctor Schabbs to resurrect 
dead, mutated soldiers to overrun the world, calling the plan "Operation: Eisenfaust".


Are the rumors true?  You do some spying to find out.  You sneak into a German camp 
and easedrop on some chatting Nazis from a distance.  But while you've checked behind 
you, in front of you, and from side to side, you haven't checked above you.  And 
from above is where an Officer jumps you.

You awaken later to find yourself in Castle Wolfenstein, miles away from where you're 
supposed to be.  You pull the old "sick ploy" to coax a guard in, cut his throat, 
and grab his gun.  As you hear other Nazis coming to investigate, you ready yourself 
for action.

The dungeon has swallowed you whole.  You plan to give it massive indigestion.

Game description:

Here's the status of the mod's features in this ZIP file:

In-game messages - Done.
8 new treasure sprites - Done.
Hint bubbles - Complete.
Ammo crates - These function with the press of the Spacebar.
Tables with items - 100% complete.  Press the Spacebar when you're against a table 
to pick up what's on top of it.
New treasure sounds - Complete, though I might add more later.
Hi-res Static Objects - About 85% complete.  The stove and spear rack are *finally* 
done.  So are the vines, though these levels don't use them.
New Static Objects - Graphically, these are all complete, but more may be added later.

Wall textures - Aside from the dungeon walls with skeletons, they're complete.  Check 
out the hi-res version of the multi-colored bricks!  :-D
Standard enemies (SS, Mutant, etc.) - 100% complete.  They're just enlarged 64x64 
duplicates of the original.  I corrected the purple anomalies, though.
New title screen - Done.
New music - Two new tunes from Yours Truly are included.
Animated objects - Enabled.
Directional sprites - Enabled.
Additional enemies - Not done.  Two enemies are added, though (as of v1.99).
Read This! text - Not updated.
New door types - Completed, but the wooden type may be redone for Version 2.

If I'm not mistaken, all shareware levels run the way they should, aside from the 
purple walls, which - again - are enlarged 64x64 duplicates of the original.

Credits:

Original code: Id Software
Wolf4SDL version: Ripper
Additional coding: Merthsoft, WLHack, Tricob, BT, and various code tutorials from 
the Wolf3D Dome and the DHWs message boards
Graphics: Adrian Carmack, Julian Ridley, Chris Benson, Todd Camasta, Sporb, Laz Rojas, 
Tricob, ChaosEdit, WDC, graphical extractions from TekWar (care of DoomJedi), ReColorBMP, 
Spritemaker, MS Paint

Disclaimer: Tricob is not associated with the ESRB, nor assumes any liability for 
damages related to WolfDX or its tools.  End of legal mumbo-jumbo.

- "Tricob".