                                                             1945 The End Of The 
Third Reich Phase 2 Final





Thank you for downloading 1945 The End Of The Third Riech my first ever successful 
Wolfenstein 3D addon.In the past I had a couple to few attempts to make an addon 
but either I never had the time, patiance or lack of skills or it would end up screwed 
because I did something wrong and I lost my work but for the first time ever I have 
made the time and put alot of thought and effort into making it.
You may come across some bugs in the game but Ive played through and ammended as 
much as I could. The code editing is my weak spot, I tried my very best to encode 
all the changes this mod was intended to have but one fault is disabling the Boss's 
Death Cam I don't know how to make Death Cam bosses drop a key so I put a gold key 
by the exit, but just because you can coward your way from some bosses doesn't mean 
do. The Par times is another defect, I tried to change the Par times and End level 
intermissions to suit this mod but hit a few errors so ignor some of the End level 
intermissions. Other than that I think I have achieved my goal to create good levels 
from scratch, alot of thought went into these levels, years of practice soon paid 
off.


                                                                  Storyline

It's the year 1945, the war has been going on for nearly six years.The nazis fight 
to keep Hitler's twisted dream alive to take over the world. The allies sent out 
a polish guy named BJ Blazcowicks AKA The One Man Army.
You BJ Blazcowicks grandson of the man who brought the first world war down who has 
fought and accomplished many missions. You are the allies only hope if you can't 
bring the third riech to an end then no one can. You BJ Blazcowicks take out your 
pistol with 8 bullets and your trusty knife and get flown to a nearby open forset 
by some castle in a helecopter.It's time to go in there and bring an end to the third 
riech.



                                                           1945 The End Of The Third 
Riech features 




One seamless episode of 60 all new large action packed epic levels.
A bigger selection of different wall textures from Spear Of Destiny original and 
Spear Destiny missions 2 and three and wall textures from other addons plus some 
new wall textures created by me plus many of the original Wolfenstein textures and 
good original Wolfenstein substitute textures. 
New props from Spear Of Destiny original and Spear Of Destiny missions 2 and 3 and 
other addons and some original Wolfenstein textures and substitute originals.
New guards and bosses from Spear Of Destiny and other addons and original Wolfenstein. 

New weapons some original Wolfenstein weapons and some from other addons.
New items from other addons and original Wolfenstein.
New sounds from other addons and Spear Of Destiny and original Wolfenstein.
All new VGA screen graphics and a brand new status bar.
25 amo crate added.
Changed ceiling colours to fit in with the level location.
Multiple floor colours some levels have a different floor colour to others to fit 
in with the level location.
Boss action replays removed.
All new epic music from verious origins and games in midi format or some new imported 
music and some original Wolfenstein music.






Level names





Level 1 Open forest and Castle gates

You start off in an open forest area outside the gates of the castle where an outdoor 
cell is located with prisners which are part of some twisted experiment.


Level 2 Castle entrance

The location of the first floor of the Castle. There are hallways and many different 
rooms and each room is guarded with nazi soldiers.

Levels 3-5 Lower Castle levels

The lower floors of the Castle locating large hallways passageways storage rooms 
cells and many areas guarded at times. 

Level 5 Boss 1 

Here you will meet Hanz Gross guarding the key to the elevator to the upper castle 
levels.Defeat him and proceed to the upper castle.

Level 6 Tunnel 1

Here is a tunnel access that connects the lower castle and upper castle floors a 
place for bomb shelter and also a waste sewer with slime covered walls and also controll 
of the castle working.To get to the upper castle you must get throuth the tunnel 
area and defeat the guards.This level is a bit like the castle but with slimmy stone 
and brick walls and a place for the guards guarding the place to live.

Levels 7-10 Upper castle levels

These levels are of simler design and theme to the lower castle levels. These are 
the upper floors of the castle with long passages hallways and different rooms.Level 
8 is the divide where you cross a divide to get across to the other part of the castle 
located on a mountain.

Level 10 Boss 2 

Here you will meet Otto Giftmatcher a twisted scientist of the chemical warfare guarding 
the key to the tower levels.Nobody knows why Otto is here.

Level 11 Tunnel 2

Here is another tunnel access built into a mountain the main controll point of the 
castle towers controling the water access and is the waste desposal sewers of the 
castle towers guards guading the tunnel access.You must go through the tunnel access 
to get to the castle towers.

Levels 12-15 Castle tower

You made it to the castle tower  these levels are simler to the castle levels introducing 
more new walls and large rooms at times slightly more challenging to previous levels 
well guarded.

Level 15 Boss 3

Here you will meet Hanz Gross again this is Hanz twin Hanz the second guarding the 
key to the rest of the tower.

Level 16 Tunnel 3

This tunnel access is the access to the tower peek built right under a mountain as 
an access to the tower peek and is the controll point to the tower peek controlling 
water access to the tower peek and is the waste disposal and sewer to the tower peek.


Level 17 Tower Peek

Located on the peek of a mountain is the tower peek. Here you can get the best view 
from down below you.

Level 18 Office Level

After taking the elevator on the tower peek you end up on the office floor.This is 
an office area where all the paper work and conferences take place.This level is 
guarded with just officers.

Level 19 Dungeon Level

Below the tower is a dungeon floor a big cell where prisners are taken after being 
stored in the small cells in the castle and lower tower level if they make it out 
alive.

Level 20 Boss 4 

This is the very top of the tower where you face Otto Giftmatcher this it's Otto's 
twin Otto the second guading the key to the bunker levels.This level is also the 
place where the chemical warfare is arranged and is or was home to both Otto's.

Levels 21-25 Lower Nazi millitary base

These are the lower Nazi millitary base levels this is where things start to look 
different built out of rock and brick to make a strong bond this is the nazi hedquaters 
milletery base. Things really start to get more challanging, some levels can be heavily 
guarded at times so be carefull.

Level 25 Boss 5 

Another Hanz Gross awaits you.

Levels 26-29 Upper Nazi millitary base

The upper floors of the millertery base Levels 26 and 28 are home to the grey uniformed 
SS guards guarded with SS guards. Some parts of levels can be packed with SS guards.


Level 29 Boss 6

This is it here you are on the Hitler's floor where you will face Hitler himself 
this is hitler's home.Nobody has ever made it out alive defeat Hitler and you have 
nearly brought the third riech crashing down.

Level 30 Castle escape

You have nearly made it right outside at the top of the castle its night time.There 
are some guards guarding the exit and a forest and cave and mountain and the end 
of the castle.Kill the nazi's and escape through the locked door.

Levels 31-35 Laberatory levels

Just when you thought your mission was over it had only just started when you went 
to escape the castle from the peek and take what you thought was an exit there was 
another building where you heard screams of touture.You must go in there and bring 
down Scabb's and his mutant army as no nazi life form must exist as the sooner there 
gone the better.These levels are clinical in style with white and grey panelled walls 
and hospital beds and lots of bones and blood on the floors and the mutants make 
their first apperance.These laberatory levels are where the prisners are taken if 
they make it out alive they are either killed and or become part of Scabb's twisted 
experiment.

Level 35 Boss 7

Here you will face an Ubermutant one of Scabb's giant creations.This is where Ubermutant's 
are created and this is Ubermutant's home and there are reguler mutants here as well.Kill 
him and then proceed to the upper laberatory floors.

Levels 36-40 Upper Laberatory floors
Similar to the lower Laberatory levels, this is where the mutant's are created and 
Dr Scabb's live here. This is what happens to the prisoners they are turned into 
mutants.
Level's 41-45 Caverns of the unknown
Your mission isn't over yet, after defeating the twisted Dr Scabb's you leave his 
diabolical laberatoy home and come across the mysterious Cavern's of the unknown, 
there called the Cavern's of the unknown because no human has ever encountered them. 
You are the first person to have made it this far, you must go into the Cavern's 
of the unknown and prepare yourself for what may lie within.

Level 45 Boss 9
So far you have discovered more mutant's within the Cavern's of the unknown, here 
you will have to battle with another Ubermutant.

Level 46 Cavern tunnels
A secret tunnel, you must go through this tunnel and find out where it takes you.


Level's 47-49 2nd part of the Caverns of the unknown
The end of the tunnel takes you to the 2nd part of the Cavern's of the unknown, the 
2nd part of what you believe is the mutant's habitat. You must find out what's at 
the other end.

Level 50 The Lair of the unknown
Nobody really knows about what terrors may lurk here, your the only person who's 
about to find out.

Secret levels Level's 59-60
These secret levels are located at verious locations within the castle units. An 
opertunity to get extra treasure, access to these levels are quite well hidden

Super secret levels Level's 51-57
Super secret levels are or tend to be very well hidden, se if you can work out how 
to get to them.More opertunities to get extra treasures and dig for gold. But be 
warned you will have to fight before you proceed to a super secret  

Ultra secret level
See if you can find it. If you can get there there will be a real reward for you 
up there. But be warned again you will have to fight for access to it.








Credits and acknolidgements
First of all and most importantly thanks to all the guys at Id software and apogee 
for Wolfenstein 3D and it's sequal or prequal Spear of Destiny, and thanks to Form 
Gen Corperation for the 2 Spear addons Return to danger and Ultimate. Thanks to them 
also for relesing editing programs such as Mapedit level designer and Wolfedit vswap 
graphics editor, without those programs not even Form Gen's Spear addons would have 
existed. But also thanks to them guys for relesing the Wolfenstein source code. Thanks 
also to people like Florian Stohr for Flo Edit and Chaos software for the fantastic 
Chaos edit, all these editing programs made this Wolfenstein Mod what it is.

I would now like to give further credit to a few more people, BJ Rowan for his substitute 
grey stone wall set, blue stone wall set, wood pannel wall set, red brick wall set, 
silver steel plate wall set, slimmy grey stone wall set, the light grey lab tiles 
wall set, the dark grey stone wall, the slimmy green brick wall, the complete set 
of doors, the silver suit of armor?, the silver cage, the pile of skulls and bones, 
substitute silver key, substitute first aid kit, grey ammo clip, MP40 item and images, 
silver chaingun item and images, substitute cross? chalace, jewls and crown, substitute 
ammo crate, grey uniformed SS, bloody hospital bed, hospital bed, guard barking height, 
dog bark, Goodentag, hanz fall, mutant fall, officer fall, guard fall, guard cry. 
Form Gen Corp for dark grey marble wall, grey rock wall, yellow pannel wall, substitute 
water, light bulb. Id software for original wolfenstein and Spear wall textures, 
props, characters and sounds and music. Ken O Brian fow substitute wall textures. 
Laz Rogers for dark brown brick wall ( what about the golden brown stone? ), possibly 
props but credit goes to him for weapon sounds and door sounds. Nate Smith for props 
and some sounds. Barry Christian for green stone wall, cloudy landscape. Paal Olstad 
for the platnimn marble wall. Not sure who created the check tiles wall or the grey 
x wall. Luke Strauman for the blue slimmy stone. MCS for the forest wall which I 
slightly modified. Kuki for the end boss. WSJ for some of the sounds such as the 
guard falls and screams. Reactor for his midi and IMF music packs of carefully selected 
music and thanks to whoever converted the imported songs to IMF.

There are some vswap graphics that are new to this mod, just a couple of wall textures 
created by me, the blue strip wood pannel and the grey strip wood pannel. I also 
might have recoloured the day landscape into a sunset landscape. Feel free to use 
these in your own mod if you wish to.

I would also like to thank a few people for source code tutorials Martin Krysiak 
<mailto:muad.dib1 (at) wp.pl> for directing tutorials at the Wolfenstein dome, MCS for 
the seamless levels shortcut, Luke Strauman for source code tutorials. Without you 
guys many of this mod's code changes wouldn't have been possible, so thanks it's 
more than I could have asked for.  

And thank you for downloading and playing this mod I hope you enjoy playing this 
mod as much as I enjoyed creating it



How I created this mod
Mapedit for level creation
Wolfedit for vswap graphic replacement
Flo edit for editing levels, vswap graphics and sounds, vga screen graphics, importing 
new music, editing end art and recording new demos
Chaos edit for level editing, graphics editing.
Wolfenstein source code code editing. 


You are welcome to use this mod as a base for your own mods, if you want to use any 
of the vswap graphics or sounds and music from this mod fine by me full credit as 
mentioned above, your welcome to use the levels in this mod for your own mods. 



   

      

   

   
