Doomsday Spiritual Warfare Throughout the End of the Age

This alternate reality game is a work of fiction. Revelation is real.

President Ruth Moses and CIA agent John Matthews were in the situation room at the 
White House. They had finished watching the Triad Files Pilot. The time was 7:18 
PM. "Let us pray together John. I will lead the prayer." said the President. John 
and the President held hands together and closed their eyes. "Jesus, please help 
us be righteous and courageous during these dark times. Give the world courage to 
do what is right in the face of evil. Give the world courage to reject Satan, the 
Antichrist, and the False Prophet who are now the leaders of the Triad. Give the 
world courage to believe in You. Amen." said President Ruth Moses. "Amen." said John 
Matthews.

Later, Sarah Wayne sent an email message.

The following text takes place in 2009. The date was December 6, 2009. The time was 
7:17 PM. FBI agent Michael James, FBI agent John James, FBI agent Billy Blaze, and 
FBI agent Harry James were at the FBI Milwaukee, Wisconsin field office. A man walked 
into the field office. "Hello. My name is Mark Wayne. I have a video email of my 
wife, Sarah Wayne, that I need the FBI to see. I think Sarah is in danger. The date 
on the video email is a future date." said Mark Wayne. Mark Wayne played the video 
for the FBI.

Get the {Found This Book Episode 1} widget and many other {great free widgets} at 
{Widgetbox}! Not seeing a widget? ({More info})

"Agent Blaze, agent Harry James, agent Michael James, and I will protect your family. 
I believe that the video is from the future. The video is definately an Apocalyptic 
message. The Apocalyptic material is described in Revelation. The men in the video 
are future Triad members. The Triad members are working for Satan, the Antichrist, 
and the False Prophet. Satan, the Antichrist, and the False Prophet are going to 
be the future leaders of the Triad. The imprint is the mark of the beast. I need 
to speak to your wife, Sarah Wayne. Where is she?" said John. "My wife is at our 
house. She did not come to the FBI field office today because she is taking care 
of our kids. My wife is not a Christian. She was shocked when she saw the video." 
said Mark. "Lead the way to your house." said John. The agents got into separate 
vehicles and drove to the Wayne house.

The FBI agents and Mark arrived at the Wayne house at 7:45 PM. John James approached 
Sarah Wayne. "Hello Mrs. Wayne. I know that the video from the future shocked you. 
All of the FBI agents you see here are Christians and we are here to protect you 
and your family." said John. "Thanks for all of you protecting me and my family." 
said Sarah. "We are welcome." said John.

Later, Sarah Wayne sent a second email message.

The following text takes place in 2009. The date was December 12, 2009. The time 
was 7:07 PM. "John, Sarah, Julie, and Sandy, I just got a second video email message 
from my future wife." said Mark Wayne. Mark played the second video for his wife, 
kids, and the FBI.

Get the {Found This Book Episode 2} widget and many other {great free widgets} at 
{Widgetbox}! Not seeing a widget? ({More info}) 

"The second video is also an Apocalyptic message. War, hunger, slaughter, and epidemics 
are described in the book of Revelation." said John James. John James approached 
Sarah Wayne. "I am starting to believe that this is my future. I want my family and 
I to go into the future. My family are Christians, they will just be raptured. I 
need to prove that Jesus is real." said Sarah Wayne. "Sarah, the Bible is the only 
proof you need." said John.

Later, Sarah Wayne sent a third email message.

The following text takes place in 2009. The date was December 18, 2009. The time 
was 5:00 PM. "John, Sarah, Julie, and Sandy, I just got a third video email message 
from my future wife." said Mark Wayne. Mark played the third video for his wife, 
kids, and the FBI.

Get the {Found This Book Episode 3} widget and many other {great free widgets} at 
{Widgetbox}! Not seeing a widget? ({More info})

"The third video mentions that the temple has been rebuilt in Jerusalem. The temple 
has not been rebuilt yet, but it will be in the future. The Antichrist will sit in 
the temple and proclaim himself to be god. Today is December 18, 2009. The Triad 
is going to come here tonight. The Triad might come at 6:06 PM." said John James. 


Suddenly, a black van pulled up at the house. Eighteen ski masked Triad men got out 
of the van. "I need additional FBI agents outside the house!" yelled John James. 
Eighteen additional FBI agents approached the house. The 18 Triad criminals knocked 
out the 18 FBI agents with knock out gas. The 18 Triad men pulled out their machine 
guns. The heroes including Mark Wayne and Sarah Wayne pulled out their guns. The 
Triad shot at the heroes. The heroes shot back in self defense. Six Triad criminals 
died. "John, my family and I are going to the time machine. Cover us." said Sarah 
Wayne. Sarah Wayne and her family ran on foot to the time machine. The FBI agents 
covered the Wayne family. The Triad criminals shot at the FBI agents. The FBI agents 
shot back. Three Triad criminals died. Blood was everywhere.

The Wayne family and the FBI agents arrived at the time machine at 5:25 PM. The FBI 
agents got shot by the Triad in both of their hands. The Triad held the Wayne family 
and the FBI agents hostaged. One Triad criminal took off his ski mask. "I am going 
to have my revenge on you Keen." said the Triad criminal. Billy Blaze was shocked 
to discover that the Triad criminal calling him his space name was someone he fought 
before as Commander Keen. "You are Mortimer McMire. The last time that I saw you 
was back in 1991." said Billy Blaze. "I am Mortimer McMire. Remove your ski mask 
Haman Judas." said McMire. Haman Judas removed his ski mask. Michael James was shocked 
at what he saw. "You are Hitler!" said Michael James. "I am not Hitler. I am Haman 
Judas. I am a Nephilim. The future leaders of the Triad are Satan, Lucien Judas, 
and Cain Sodom." said Haman. "Haman, kill the FBI agents and the Wayne family." said 
McMire." The FBI agents prayed silently for a miracle. The FBI agents got emotional. 
"Billy and Harry, I consider both of you my brothers in Christ. Goodbye." said Michael 
James. "I am going to miss you Harry. You were a great son. I also consider both 
of you my brothers in Christ. Goodbye." said John James. Michael and John manage 
to overtake the Triad criminals who were holding the Wayne family hostage. The Wayne 
family quickly got in the time machine and went to the future. Haman shot at Michael 
James. Michael James died. "Michael!" yelled Billy. "Uncle!" yelled Harry. Haman 
shot at John James. John James died. "John!" yelled Billy. "Daddy!" yelled Harry. 
"Haman, kill Harry. I will kill Keen." said McMire. The Triad was about to pull the 
trigger when two FBI agents shot Mcmire and Judas. Mortimer McMire and Haman Judas 
were dead. Blood was everywhere.

The Wayne family arrived in the future. The time was 6:00 AM. Sarah Wayne said goodbye 
to her family. "Goodbye Mark. Goodbye Julie. Goodbye Sandy." said Sarah Wayne tearfully. 
"Sarah, you can go to Heaven with us. All you have to do is ask, believe, and confess." 
said Mark tearfully. "Mark, my faith is not as strong as yours. I need proof. Once 
the rapture has occurred, I will have my proof." said Sarah. "You remind me of doubting 
Thomas." said Mark. Sarah hugged her family. Then, at 6:07 AM while Sarah was still 
hugging her family, in the twinkling of an eye, Sarah Wayne's Christian family disappeared 
at 6:07 AM. "Jesus, please come into my heart. I am a sinner. I believe that you 
died on the cross to save me from my sins. You rose from the dead three days later. 
Please forgive me for my sins Jesus." said Sarah.

Later at 12:12 AM on a different day, Lucien Judas, Cain Sodom, and Deathshead were 
having a private meeting. A Satanic pentagram was on the ceiling of the meeting room. 
The pentagram indicated that Satan was present. Lucien Judas, Cain Sodom, and Deathshead 
each had a spear in their hand. Each of them took their spear and cut their right 
hand. Blood dripped from each right hand. Lucien Judas, Cain Sodom, and Deathshead 
marked the pentagram with their blood. "The bad news is that Haman Judas and Mortimer 
McMire are dead and that the Wayne family, William Joseph Blazkowicz II, and Harry 
James did not die in the past. The good news is that Michael James and John James 
are dead." said Deathshead. "I will resurrect Haman Judas and Mortimer McMire from 
the dead. I am glad that Michael James and John James are dead, but I wanted William 
Joseph Blazkowicz II, Harry James, and the Wayne family killed. Mark Wayne and Sarah 
Wayne are well trained CIA agents. Satan, Cain, and I were able to watch the whole 
fight each using a sphere with number sixes on it. The 3 spheres of the beast are 
full of Satanic power. They were made in Hell. The spears of the beast are also full 
of Satanic power. They were also made in Hell. Only 12 spears of the beast remain. 
Mortimer McMire and Haman Judas will be able to murder Billy Blaze and Harry James 
during the battle of Armageddon." said Lucien Judas. "There will be Christian bloodshed 
at the battle of Armageddon." said Cain Sodom. Lucien Judas healed his own hand, 
Cain Sodom's hand, and Deathshead's hand.

Earlier at 12:07 AM on the same night that John Matthews and President Ruth Moses 
watched the Triad Files Pilot, John Matthews was at the CIA Headquarters in Virginia 
when he recieved a vision from God. "John, this is the arcangel Michael. Meet me 
at Calvary where our Lord and Savior was crucified. I look forward to seeing you. 
Jesus will be with you throughout the end of the age." said Michael. Michael vanished. 
John walked quickly into CIA director Joseph Washington's office, "Joseph, I need 
to take a CIA plane and travel to Calvary." said John. "I know John. Everyone at 
the CIA and President Ruth Moses saw the arcangel Michael. I told Michael that he 
could come in and talk to you. The plane is ready. God speed John." said Joseph. 
President Ruth Moses appeared on the video phone. "God speed John." said President 
Ruth Moses. "God speed John." said Sarah Wayne. John got into a plane and flew to 
Calvary.

Doomsday Spiritual Warfare Throughout the End of the Age has been completed.