Base666
By Wilhelm

Files you must have in the zip file

Audiohed.sod
Audiot.sod
Config.sod
Gamemaps.sod
Maphead.sod
Vgadict.sod
Vgagraph.sod
Vgahead.sod
Vswap.sod
Readme.txt (this file)

For copyright reasons the EXE file has been left out.You must have the full version 
of Spear of
Destiny to play this add-on.

Story:

You get the phone call at 4 a.m.By 5:30 you're in the secret installation.The commander 
explains tersely, "It's about the
Slipgate device. Once we perfect these,we'll be able to use them to transport people 
and cargo from one place to another
instantly."An enemy is using his own slipgates to insert death squads inside our 
bases to kill, steal, and kidnap..."The hell
of it is we have no idea where he's from.Our top scientists think he's not from Earth, 
but another dimension and this enemy
is targeting this area "Base 666"."You're our best man. This is Operation Counterstrike 
and you're in charge. Find this enemy
and stop him ... or it ... You have full authority to requisition anything you need.If 
the eggheads are right, all our lives
are expendable.."While scouting the neighborhood, you hear shots back at the base 
Damn, that bastard works fast! He heard
about Operation Counterstrike,and hit firstRacing back, you see the place is overrun.You 
are almost certainly the only
survivor.Operation Counterstrike is over.Except for you.You know that the heart of 
the installation holds a slipgate. Since
the enemy's killers came through,it is still set to his dimension.You can use it 
to get loose in his den.Maybe you can get to
the enemy personally. You pump a round into your shotgun, and get moving.

Enemies

Grunt
Weak,carries pistol and easy to knock out

Rottweiler
Oh my god! Guard dogs take care,shoot them before they get near you

Enforcer
Armed with a cell blaster and is bigger and beefier than the grunt

Mutant
Horrible,with a gun on chest and meat cleavers in both hands

Officer
Carries pistol and is fast and hard to avoid

Ogre
Big and fast with two chainguns,be ready to kill

Skeleton Zombie
With rockets and chainguns,ready to kill everything in its path

Death Mutant
Big,mean,nasty with a chaingun on its chest and meat cleavers in four hands ERGGHH


Iron Giant
Massive,menacing with chainguns and rocket launchers

The Dragon
Throws fireballs and caused this nightmare when the slipgates where tampered with

When he is dead you might be trapped in his lair

Weapons

Knife
Your last resort when you have no ammo

Shotgun
You always have this with you.Not really a good weapon but makes a hole in the head


Mini gun
A better weapon than the shotgun that prickles enemies with what it fires

Chaingun
Even better and consumes ammo like popcorn.

Credits

Andy Nonymous
Mr Lowe
ID Software
Jamerr Productions
Author of Doomenstein
JM (Author of this file)