YET ANOTHER UNFINISHED PROJECT
By Dugtrio17

Yeah, I didn't even get around to naming this one. I did have an assload planned
out for it, though. That's not really unusual for my projects; it's a lot easier
to plan to do something than it is to actually do it.

Anywho! The main concept of the mod is that it's supposed to make plenty of use
of the use key (usually space bar unless you're some kind of weirdo); the final
version was supposed to manifest this in objects that you pick up (and equip
like weapons), walls that let you transform into other characters, and just
stuff in the environment that you can interact with, like stuff to talk to and
weird easter eggs to find. The groundwork for that is all there; with the engine
I made I could feasibly put all that in, but that's still a lot of work.

*****
Also, I DID NOT INCLUDE THE SDL DLLS WITH THIS ZIP. YOU NEED SDL.DLL AS WELL AS
SDL_MIXER.DLL TO RUN THIS ABOMINATION.
*****

Alright, enough preamble, let's get right to how to navigate this crazy thing:

CONTROLS

Your normal Wolf3D controls work (or they should, I didn't even bother to test
that). As I was making this, I found that I preferred some changes to movement,
especially in a game that was less of a nonstop actionfest than Wolfenstein. To
that end, I lowered the movement speed, enabled WASD-style movement, made it so
the player always runs, and made turning faster. However, I made all of this 100%
optional, and by default I'm pretty sure all of that's disabled. You can enable
it all individually in Options->Control->Advanced. For the record, I couldn't
think of a description to put for "Faster turning?", so that's why it says what
it does.

What, you thought that was all I changed? I wouldn't make a dedicated section for
the controls if it was. I added a few other keys:
H:   Holsters your current item, if it can be holstered. This basically lets you
     carry two items, though if one of them can't be holstered then you can't
     switch to the other one until you drop the unholsterable one. I probably
     should have made a drop key for that reason.
F10: Gives you info on whatever you're holding. For erroneous reasons, it refers
     to your knife as your hands. I would have preferred to use the text box
     that the debug windows use, but if I remember correctly it was giving me
     headaches so I copped out with the standard gray text boxes. 
F11: Gives you info on the current level. It only has info for the first level,
     which was to be a tutorial level. It was supposed to have a ton of sample
     stuff to play around with to get a feel for the game, like weapons to pick
     up, transformations to goof around with, and probably some form of enemy or
     target generator. Also, there's stop signs everywhere. More on those in a
     minute.

ITEMS

I could have just called this section "Weapons".

KNIFE: Pretty sure there's almost nothing changed here. One thing that was
       changed is the fact that the knife now deals "Cutting" type damage, which
       means it slices enemies in half in a gory fashion.
GFI PISTOL: GFI obviously stands for "Go For It", a reference to yet another
	    unfinished project I gave up on and released to the public eons ago.
	    This is how I originally envisioned the pistol from that game, but
	    because I couldn't figure out a good way to model the laser I just
	    changed the whole concept. Fun fact: the laser is made up of some
	    hundreds (thousands?) of a new object type I defined specifically
	    for it, an object I dubbed the "particle". It's basically an actor
	    minus a ton of information that decorative stuff doesn't need. I
	    probably would have used my new object type for other stuff.
	    Also I'm sorry the pistol charging sound is so obnoxious.
FIREWORKS: A remake of the spark volcano thing from Switch Seventeen. This time
	   the graphics look less like they were drawn by a cracked-out monkey,
	   and a new one doesn't magically appear in your hands when you drop
	   it.
STAFF: A remake of the entire Wizardry weaponset from Switch Seventeen. I guess
       I was going full nostalgia with this mod? The first three attacks are the
       same as they were before, plus a bit of polish, but Lunar Boost was
       replaced with a frost nova. Magic regeneration is a bit different this
       time around, too; how, I don't entirely remember. I know it takes a few
       seconds after using a spell to start replenishing your power, a change I
       made because the old way meant that the lightning spell was basically the
       only useful spell in the original version. I think I made the fire spell
       cheaper to compensate, as well.
       You know, I could easily just go look at the source code and see what I
       changed. It's literally right here, on this computer. Hell, I even coded
       it all where I'm sitting, which probably sounds more impressive after I
       tell you that I'm in a place I visit only a few times a year. Little
       coincidences like that fascinate me.

TRANSFORMATIONS

Pretty much where the player was intended to get his real firepower from.
Transformations can change everything about you, though your health remains
constant between them. Everything else is fair game; your weapons, your speed,
how you react to different types of damage, and sometimes even how you move.

BLADE MAN: My favorite boss from Mega Man 10 for some reason. In order to use
	   his signature triple blade attack you have to wait a little between
	   attacks, as indicated by the number in your ammo slot. You can
	   attack rapidly just fine, but it'll just be a melee slice. Blade
	   Man is weak to explosive damage, but I think the only way this can
	   manifest is by planting some fireworks and then quickly changing to
	   Blade Man. Maybe Giftmacher's missiles are explosive?
	   It goes without saying that as a robot Blade Man is resistant to
	   gunfire.
ASTEROIDS: Or rather the ship from Asteroids. Or was it just called Asteroid?
	   Jesus, the internet's right in front of me and I still can't be
	   hassled with looking that up, what the shit.
	   Anywho, this is one of the cooler things in this mod, and it was
	   basically to be included as dickwaving and as a way of shocking the
	   player right from the get-go with the idea that transformations
	   could truly change everything about how the game played (all three
	   transformations included were supposed to be in the tutorial level).
	   One hit kills you in this form, but at least I didn't make it so a
	   brush with a wall blew you up; that would just be silly.
SS:	   A pretty plain transformation, also included as a demonstration of
	   sorts. You move and fire at exactly the same rate as an SS, though
	   unlike an SS you don't have to fire in set bursts. I wanna say
	   the damage table for the SS is different from the player's, but
	   don't quote me on that.

CHEATS

I didn't remove the requirement for --goobers or activating debug mode because
I'm an idiot.

Tab+X: Gives you an item; 0 is the knife, 1 is the GFI pistol, et cetera.
Tab+Q: Doesn't quit the game because that's the worst fucking idea for a debug
       cheat ever, holy shit. I can't count the times I've gone for tab and hit
       Q with it by accident and agh God fucking dammit
       Oh, and this lets you change transformations, so you can be Blade Man in
       other stages and chop guards into bits.
There might be others that do minor things necessary for debugging. I don't
remember.

OTHER SHIT

-The stop signs are there to tell you how to play the game. If you read this
 document, you probably already know how. All their messages are hard-coded;
 I probably should have figured out a way to externalize them. At least they're
 not all represented by different internal objects; I believe the engine tells
 which is which by their exact coordinates and map, which is probably even
 worse. The graphics are not my best work, but then my best work isn't much
 better.
-Damage types are present in the game, though since there's so little they
 weren't fully utilized. I think there's 18 damage types, with the important
 ones being Cutting, Laser, Explosive, and Bullet. There's also a neutral
 damage type, for convenience's sake.
-Bullets were planned to be a serious threat to the player; you'll notice they
 always do a decent chunk of damage, sometimes all the way up to 80. They also
 always make the screen really red when they hit, probably to convey the fact
 that getting shot really fucking hurts (as opposed to getting blown up or
 sliced open?).
-The game was planned to take away the player's ability to save any time. I
 know, it seems like kind of a dick move, but I think I wanted to avoid save
 scumming to beat a level, which is less like playing a game and more like
 going through a series of motions. Maybe that should be a choice best left
 to the player, though. To counteract this radical change, I simultaneously
 planned to make progress independent of prior progress; you started each
 level with full health and whatever gear the level dictated you started with,
 regardless of what you beat the last level with, and you were to be able to
 select any stage you'd already gotten to. Lives were to be removed entirely.
-You could still save, but only at designated churches. The churches were
 intended to have priests outside asking if the player had been saved, and the
 Hitler Ghost in front of the church in the first stage is the first step of
 that.
-The Hitler Ghost is immune to laser damage, as a means of testing the ability
 of enemies immune to laser damage to stop the piercing laser attack of the
 GFI pistol.
-Did I mention the animation that happens when you kill somebody with a cutting
 attack? Because it's pretty fuckin' awesome. I'm rather proud of it, especially
 the fact that the sprite splitting is done entirely by the engine.
-Probably some other stuff I forget agh Jesus people it's 4:30 in the morning
 and technically since daylight savings time happened tonight it feels like 5:30
 give me a fucking break I typed this all up on a whim

CREDITS

I'm using Alumiun's sound code and WSJ's message code. Honestly it's hard to
remember who all I should credit. Probably Poet? I think I still use his weapon
tutorial as a checklist for everything I should change. Let's thank my mom while
I'm here, specifically for not drowning me in the bathtub even though she had
plenty of chances and I soooo deserved it. And Zero X. Diamond for playtesting
what little I made and giving me incentive to keep going by providing positive
feedback.