Thank you for downloading The Third Reich - Episode 1: A Dark Secret, a mod for SPear 
of Destiny made by CKeen and Wolf Skevos-Jones. The mod contains a new episode with 
11 levels, with new enemies, new graphics and sounds.

Storyline (it is NOT related to the original Wolf3d plot):

you, BJ, are part of an elite allied strike team which has been assigned to eliminate 
General Fettgesicht, developer of some new chemical weapons that he wants to use 
against the allies. Taking out the general will greatly help the allied cause. So 
you and your team are paradropped near a small abandoned village, in which the general 
is apparently hiding. Unfortunately, once you reach the ground, you realize it was 
only a trap. Nazi soldiers surround you and slaughter your team. You manage to hide 
in a hole in the ground before the soldiers could kill you, but you lose all your 
weapons except for your pistol. You hear footsteps and you realize the nazi soldiers 
are coming to check if anyone survived. It seems that you have no way to escape death, 
until you find that behind a strange looking rock in the hole there's a door. Without 
any other way to escape you quickly open that door which reveals itself to be an 
elevator that leads to an underground bunker. This bunker seems to have been built 
in the underhalls of an ancient german castle (now destroyed) and this is most likely 
where the General is hiding! It is up to you now to kill him, and stop the production 
of his chemical weapons once and for all!

Credits:

WSJ: For helping me using Chaos Edit, modifying the source code and inspiring me 
with his great Wolf3D mods (from which I also took a few textures from).
Areyep: For the great Spear End of Destiny which is also a major influence for me, 
and for Spear Resurrection, from which I took a few textures from (I hope you guys 
don't mind!)
Chaos Software: For Chaos Edit, an extremely easy to use editor which I used to create 
the levels.
BJ Rowan: For Project Totengraeber from which I took some textures/sounds.
You: For playing this.
I may have forgotten a few people, but well, thanks to everyone who made this mod 
possible!