TURN WORD WRAP ON!!!!!!!!!!                        

			       ARMAGEDDON v1.0c
                            by Barry C. (C)1998-1999


                Thanks for downloading ARMAGEDDON Version 1.0c.   Armageddon
is a full-fledged Wolfenstein game (like Spear of Destiny was to WOLF3D). 
This is not just another set of levels by the creator of WOLF3D_60.  This is
also far better than any of my previous add-ons.  Armageddon has levels that should 
satisfy everyone, since each unit has a different theme,  everyone should find their 
favorite kind of levels in Armageddon.  From the mazey corridors of the Pipeline, 
to the wide open, slimey rooms of the West Wing, or even the similar-to-original 
style of the castle sections.  It's all in Armageddon.

INSTALLATION: Armageddon is a stand-alone game based on Wolfenstein 3-D.  I do not 
reccomend intalling Armageddon into your Wolf3d directory.  For all you Wolf add-on 
fanatics out there, your Wolf3d directory probably already takes up megabytes and 
megabytes worth of space.  At least mine does.  That's why I reccomend installing 
Armageddon in a directory like C:\ARMAG or something like that.  Just unzip the files 
into your directory, and its ready to run.

CHANGES TO THE EXE:

Continuous levels without the hassle of passwords.
Changed ceiling colors.
New music from Spear of Destiny
Two additional keys (iron and wooden keys)
AND THE BIG ONE:  The Portal to the Future

One thing I did not change is the par times.  There is a reason for this, but I don't 
want to explain it.

OTHER CHANGES:

New Graphics (a great deal of them are from Spear of Destiny, but I've created many 
and they are original.

Slightly altered sounds.  Mostly on the bosses and I have given the chaingun a gunpowder 
sound after you shoot.

And of course, 60 new levels.

STORYLINE: 	It is 1975 and you, B.J. Blazcowics were returning from Castle Titanburg 
after destroying Franz Schabbs, Dr. Schabbs brother. On your way back, you pass Dolchtafuel 
Volcano, and you see somthing you've never seen there before. You see a castle built 
into the side of it. You report it the Allied forces. They tried to detect it, but 
couldn't. Also, you could only see the castle if you were looking at it from a certain 
angle at a certain time of day.
	Two weeks later, the Spear, which has been in Allied Control since you recaptured 
it from Professor Quarkblitz, was reported missing.  You learn that the dreaded Death 
Knight, the kinght of the future has built a portal, into Dolchtafuel Volcano.  Through 
this portal, Death Knight snuck into the Allied Embassy in Berlin, and stole the 
Spear.  The portal will only stay open for a short time, and if any attack on Death 
Knight is to be attempted, someone must find the portal, and journey into the future, 
and attack Death Knight there, and recapture the Spear.  If Death Knight is not stopped, 
he will be able to altar the past which will bring an ultimate present, and bring 
Armageddon to civilization as we know it.  This is a job for B.J.

MEET THE BOSSES:

Super SS:  The Super SS is well, a regular SS guard.  The main difference is that 
the Super SS packs a chaingun instead of a machine gun and he is much harder to bring 
down.  He resides in the SS Lair on floor 58 of the Volcano.

Ubermutant:  This is one of the Mutants that were let free from The Lost Fortress. 
 You know, those big, hard to bring down, mutants armed with chainguns.  They have 
been on your back in every mission since they were freed.  This is the last one.


Dreaded Death Knight of the Future:  This is a version of Death Knight, who you previously 
killed.  However, this Death Knight is from the distant Future, and has captured 
the Spear through a portal into 1975.  This Death Knight has many more abilities 
than the previous Death Knight did.  He has the ability to transform into things 
he isn't.

THE PORTAL TO THE DISTANT FUTURE:  This is a portal built by Death Knight so he could 
make his way to 1975 to steal the Spear and dominate the entire universe.  The portal 
is located someplace in the volcano.  B.J. must find the portal, so he can warp to 
the distant future to stop Death Knight and his evil plans.  The portal is a floating 
spear in the air that if you touch it, you will be warped to the time and place the 
portal is triggered to.  You can always see the other side of it from the side your 
on. 


UNITS:  Old Castle (Levels 1-8)

	These levels represent the Old Castle.  The Old Castle is the part that is the most 
visible.  It is quite similar to the original Wolf3d levels.  These are the only 
levels that tally up percentage ratios.  You will be required to get the wooden key 
on most of the levels from level 2 on.  The Iron key is not used in this section, 
the pipes, or the West Wing. 

Pipeline (Levels 9-12)

	This is the weirdest unit in Armageddon.  From the old castle, you crept into the 
pipes and sewers of the volcano.  These pipes control everything in every section 
of the Volcano.  In this section,  You'll travel through the pipes beneath the floors. 
 In level 12, you'll travel through the Volcano itself.  In the pipes, of course. 
 In the castle pipes, you will meet a new, horrifying creature.  The Megaspider, 
created by Death Night, is a creature who will show no mercy.  It will continue to 
attack until you are dead and you can't kill it.  How do you get past the Megaspider 
without being fried by it's poison?  Timing is the answer.  It might take a couple 
of times, but you need to save often and learn the Spider's path.  Only then will 
you be able to sneak by without the Spider seeing you.  This is very difficult, but 
it's possible.  Also, if you can't get out of the way, run benath the spider very 
fast, so you may only lose 40% health on "I am thirsty for Blood".  Levels 12 is 
too hot for these spiders to live in, but plenty of mutants reside in these pipes.


West Wing (Levels 13-15)

	Somehow, you managed to find an elevator to take you out of the pipes.  You end 
up in a smelly, moldy wing of Castle Doltchtafuel.  The walls are very moldy while 
vines are not uncommon.  These levels are not difficult, just unpleasant.  It gets 
a little more civilized in level 15 though.

Power Plant (Levels 16-23)

	This is a section of the Castle.  These levels are fairly similar to the originals, 
except you will see leaking, nuclear barrels everywhere.  You will also see computer 
control centers.  With your whole self covered in green slime from the West Wing, 
you arive at the part of the castle the all the electricity is produced.  The fuel 
is drawn from the core of the volcano.  You will have to search secret passages for 
keys and elevators in several cases in this unit since the castle was remodeled for 
installation of the power generators.  Many of the old walls were moved, and some 
keys and elevators got blocked off.  You probably have been getting tired of getting 
three keys instead of two at this point.  Don't worry, in the midst of this plant, 
you will be required to get the Iron key (horrors!) on top of the gold, silver, and 
wooden ones.  You will have to get the Iron key from this point on.  That means you 
will be spending alot of times on some of these levels.  Level 22 is the headquaters 
for the controling of the plant, while most of the mechanical work is done in Level 
23.

Prison (Levels 24-30)

	These levels don't need as much explaining.  They are, obviously, set in a Nazi 
prison.  The floor here is littered in giblets.  Blood, skelitons, chrushed bones, 
and you name it, the floor is littered and polluted with this stuff.  You will notice 
many jail cells, obviously in this section.  This is definately the most boring and 
unexciting section.  Don't get discouraged, the connection from prison to the castle 
is on level 30.  You will go through a long tunnel across the mountain to enter the 
nazi castle, the section that is most similar to the original Wolfenstein levels. 
 You may be going back and forth a few times for keys, however.

The Castle  (Levels 31-55)

	This is the section that is most similar to the original wolfenstein levels.  It 
is also the longest.  This section makes up the majority of the volcano, and  the 
base of it hangs right over the core of the volcano.  The closer you get the bottom, 
the more of the "Red Stone" wall you will see. This wall type is new in Armageddon. 
 This is one of the most heavilly guarded sections, but food and ammo is available 
if you find it.  This castle has beautiful corridors and dining areas as well as 
messy dungeon cells.  In the midst of this castle, you will have to crawl through 
the slimy sewers beneath the castle.  These sewers connect the castle to the pipes. 
 You already conquered the pipes earlier in the game. In Level 55, you will enter 
the pipes that will take you into the core of the volcano.

Volcano (Levels 56-59)

	You have made it!  You are now at the most heavily guarded section. There are many 
working elevators in this section, but you must find the right one by trial and error. 
 You must work your way through these long, hot tunnels.  You have to watch out for 
the FIREBALL MONSTER, the second of the new creatures in Armageddon.  Level 59 is 
a network of steel tunnels hanging over the magma.  This is where the Ubermutant 
controls the magma and guards the entrance to the portal.  You must terminate the 
Ubermutant, and go through the portal, and be warped to an unknown world.

Level 60:

	This level is unknown to B.J. or the Allied fortress.  As the portal warps you to 
the distant future to face the Death Knight, you are unaware what lies ahead.  Beware, 
the truth is out there!

LEVELS OF INTREST:

Level 8: Watch out for the Spider, in the pipes.  You can view the Pipeline from 
the Castle.

Level 12: These are the pipes running beneath the volcano! There is a place where 
you will actually enter the Volcano.

Level 13: This is the most uninhabited area of the West Wing.  Mutants are not uncommun.


Level 22: This is the control center for the power plant.  You will notice a whole 
bunch of computers.  These computers regulate the amount of magma that that is converted 
into electricity.

Level 23: Here is where the magma is turned into electricity.  All the mechanical 
work of the plant is done on this level.  You can here the machines working in the 
background.  

Level 29:  The Dog Pound.  This part of the prison is guarded mostly by guards.  
That means the main source of health will be dog food.  There are still guards in 
this area becuase there needs to be a little bit of a challenge here.

Level 55:  Here, you must enter the pipes so you can get into the Volcano.

Level 56, 57:  These are the Volcano levels.  In 56, you journey through the pipes 
to get into the caverns of the Volcano, and in 57, you are in a huge network of caverns. 
 In 57, your goal is to find the right elevator.  Be sure to save your game, because 
if you don't, and you step into the wrong elevator, you will be redoing a whole bunch 
of levels.  Watch out for floating fireballs.

Level 58:  The SS Lair.  Here you will fight the Super SS.  Good Luck, B.J.!

Level 59: These levels are steel shafts built above the core of the Volcano. Here 
is where you will face the UberMutant.


Good Luck, B.J.  NOW JOUNEY OFF TO DOLCHTAFUEL VOLCANO!
 
    

SPECIAL THANKS TO:

Chris Chokan
Gary Ragland
B.J. Rowan
X-Human
Warren Buss, Bill Kirby, and all the creators of Mapedit.

My next add-on is going to be called Turmoil in the Powder Keg.  Instead of doing 
a sequel to Armageddon, I am going to do a prequel to The Lost Fortress, the first 
add-on I made in this series.   Turmoil in the Powder Keg is going to take place 
during the war, in 1941.  You will see more about this add-on as time goes at my 
page at http://members.tripod.com/bchristi/main.html
    
