Hitler's Graveyard 

For years, the Nazis have been amassing a large collection of treasure and religious artifacts stolen from conquered countries all across Europe. Now that the war is over, the hunt is on to track down this ill-gotten booty. Some of it has been hidden away in the strangest and most inaccessible of places. One of these places is the cemetary known only as Hitler's Graveyard, a huge network of underground catacombs somewhere in Poland. It is here that you begin your search, shrugging aside ridiculous rumors that the place is haunted. But as you begin your descent into the dark, narrow tunnels, you realize some of these rumors just might be true... and even worse, that the Nazis assigned to guard the treasure have no idea the Allies have won and don't intend to give up without a fight.

GHOUL
Not only do they consume the flesh of the dead, they'll consume your flesh too if you let them get too close.

GHOST
Believed to be the souls of Nazi victims, there are literally hundreds of these apparations throughout the tunnels.

S.S.
Killed during the 'war, these troops are more dangerous now than when they were alive.

OFFICER
A little technicality such as being dead won't stop these guys from fulfilling their duty to the fatherland.

GRAVE DIGGER
He loves his job so much, he'll dig a special grave just for you.

FRANZ THE KNIFE
When he was commandant of a concentration camp, they called him "The Butcher". Even in death, he lives up to his name.

UBERGEIST
With chainguns for eyes, this fella isn't exactly Casper.

HANS GROSSE
He's back, and with shoulder-mounted rocket launchers, he's meaner than ever before.

DEMON
Direct from the underworld, these hideous creatures pelt their victims with fireballs.

HITLER’S GHOST

The Fuhrer may be dead, but he's still up to his old tricks.

BLOOD PUDDLE
Lapping this up will give a 4% boost to your health.
 
REMAINS
Not very appetizing, but consuming it will give a 10% boost to your health.

MEDKIT
Gives a 25% boost to your health.

ONE-UP
Restores your health to 100% and gives you an extra life.

KEYS
Some doors throughout the catacombs are locked. These keys will open them.
