                                                                                 
          SCHABBS  2000
                                                                                 
          ----------------------

                                                                                 
   Created by: Gary Ragland

Thank you for downloading Schabbs 2000. This readme file will explain how to set 
the game up, as well as some
helpful hints and info about the levels. Like my previous add-on, Assassinate Hitler, 
this too has consecutive 
levels. There are also many new never-seen-before improvements and surprises incorporated 
into Schabbs 2000.

---INSTALLATION
There really isnt much involved in installing this add-on. Simply unzip the package 
into your WOLF3D directory. 
Schabbs 2000 does not corrupt your game files in any way, so you can still run the 
originals from your wolf 
directory. Then simply run the file <schabbs.exe>, and you'll be in the game. Once 
in the game, select SCHABBS 
2000 from the New Game Menu.

---STORYLINE
Allied Intelligence has just uncovered the secret Nazi plan called Operation Eisenfaust. 
Put simply, it involves the 
creation of mutant soldiers from the bodies of the dead. The maniac behind this entire 
experiment is the crazy 
scientist Dr. Schabbs. As it stands, all of the mutants he has created are still 
located in his lab, and you must 
destroy him and his mutants before they can be released, assuring a certain Nazi 
victory. There is also rumor of one
 special mutant created by Schabbs, called the "Ubermutant". If you find him, he 
too must be terminated. Your time 
is limited, so hurry off to Castle Hollehammer...

---CHANGES TO THE EXE
        * Consecutively running levels without the hassle of passwords
        * Changed Ceiling Colors
        * Changed order of songs (including new ones from Spear of Destiny)
        * Par Times for the first eight levels
        * Removal of cheat codes (most, at least)
        * And the big one --- new keys (see below)

-There are also some new graphics, mostly wall panels, in Schabbs 2000. A good deal 
of them are from Spear of Destiny, but others are original and have never been seen 
before in Wolf3D.

---THE UNITS
The game, which consists of 50 levels, is broken up to 'units', each with a different 
theme and objective. This is a 
very important section to read because it is very helpful for some of the units:


   UNIT 1 --- The Old Castle   (levels 1-8)
This first section is fairly normal and is similar to original Wolf levels (but probably 
harder) These levels represent 
the Old Castle, which is the only part of Schabbs' massive lab visible from the outside. 
This is because the lab 
extends back into the mountain, behind and below the castle entrance. These levels 
have a moderate number of 
mutants, but alot of regular guards also. At least for the early versions of this 
add-on, these are the only levels 
that have their own par times.

   UNIT 2 --- The Reactor   (levels 10-19)
This is the section that probably needs the most explaining, and is the first to 
use a new key. First, the setting: The
 Reactor is the part of Schabbs' lab where all the energy is created to fuel the 
machinery and equipment to make 
mutants. Therefore, you are likely to see many nuclear drums and waste laying around. 
The first 9 levels of this unit
 require that you get the NUCLEAR KEY, sometimes in addition to the gold and silver 
one. This means that some 
levels require three keys to make it out. Level 19 gets even worse. This level is 
the CORE of the volatile reactor. 
There are very few guards, because the reactor is melting down and is going to close 
off forever. If you dont make
 it out in time, you'll melt in the explosion of nuclear ooze. You must navigate 
the maze as the reactor makes strange 
noises in the distance. If you do it correctly you'll come to a locked door (for 
which there is no key), with two
 nuclear AUCHTUNG signs. Here you must wait for the one nazi guard left in the reactor 
to come through the door.
 Shooting him in the doorway will leave it open for you, and you'll see the elevator 
off to the left. If you get there 
too late, and the guard has already left the area, you're toast. The guard USUALLY 
appears at the door about 2 
minutes and 10 seconds after the level starts. HINT: To find the path to the exit, 
follow the "leeking nuclear barrels"

   UNIT 3 --- The Bio-Labs   (levels 20-24)
After the chaos of the reactor, you must penetrate the gross and eerie bio-labs. 
This is the area where the mad 
doctor performs inhumane tests, looking for breakthroughs in the mutant technology. 
Mutants galore in this area, 
and plenty of dead bodies and skeletons too.

   UNIT 4 --- Security Central   (levels 25-30)
Security Central is located about halfway into the mountain-top, and its main purpose 
is to defend the areas behind
it. The Nazi leaders figured that any spies would be stopped at this point, if they 
weren't devoured by the reactor. 
There are no mutants on these floors, but PLENTY of other nazis, as this is the most 
heavily guarded unit.

   UNIT 5 --- The Factory   (levels 31-38)
The factory is where all the mutants are fitted with their cleavers and chest-guns, 
during an assembly line process. 
This unit, like the Reactor, requires the use of a third key. In this case, it is 
the Factory Passcard. The last two
levels of the unit, dont really belong to the factory, but are sort of left-overs. 
Level 37, the Nazi Lodge, is a huge 
dorm for all the nazi soldiers. Level 38, Creepy Caverns, is a tunnel-filled level 
which connects the factory to the 
castle, all the way across the mountain.

   UNIT 6 --- The Castle   (levels 39-48)
The Castle is built within the remains of an ancient German castle, which rests at 
the very peak of the mountain. 
These ten levels are similar to the first castle unit, only slightly more difficult. 
The close you get to the end the 
more and more mutants you will see.

   UNIT 7 --- The Boss Levels   (levels 49-50)
Not much to explain here. The Ubermutant is on level 49, Schabbs is on 50. Both are 
difficult, but certainly beatable.

--- You may have noticed that level 9 is missing above. That is because it is a secret 
level which is reached off of 
level 8. Its pretty well hidden and VERY bizzare, in addition to being difficult. 

Check it out at your own risk (you might not get back up to the original levels)


---CREDITS

   Special Thanks to:
	  Chris Chokan
	  Warren Buss, Bill Kirby, and all others who worked on Mapedit/Wolfedit

Feel free to distribute this add-on, but ONLY if it remains unaltered and includes 
this text file.

c 1998-1999

Check out my web-site for any of my future add-on projects, in addition to many other 
great add-ons:
			http://members.tripod.com/~gdr2

Or e-mail me at:    gragland (at) ix.netcom.com

Please send me any questions or comments about Schabbs 2000     

Good Luck ----

Gary Ragland
