I wrote the floor notes before I knew about the hintbook,

(http://www.areyep.com/RIPandMCS-Spearres-HintManual.html),

so there are notes only up to floor 10. This is a very challenging 
Spear of Destiny episode, with lots of hard to find Artifacts. Keep
in mind that the Artifacts of Death and Invulnerability are your
best friends; use them wisely. You'll usually find an Artifact of
Invulnerability near enough to a Super Clone to be useful, but move 
quickly once you find it, as it often takes a while to get from the
Artifact to the Boss' location.

I saved the .html documents from the official site, in case the site
is no longer around at some future date. Each floor .html document
has a map and strategy notes from the game creators. The file folders
with the .html documents contain the graphics.

Reading the Manual and studying the maps in advance will be of
great help to you in this one.

Note that the Hall of Fame for high scores is no longer being updated, 
so don't bother submitting your SAVEGAM.RIP file.

Good luck, BJ!!


Floor 1:

You won't face a lot of enemies on floor 1, just some Guards, and some
Suicide Clones. There are just a few things you need to do, to get full 
points:

a) Find the two Secrets. If you go right from the start, you'll find the 
first Secret, (an Ammo depot), behind the wooden door in the second 
guarded stone wall. The second one is in the wooden building farther 
on, but watch out for the Land Mine.

b) Find the 22 Black Diamonds. Expect most of them to be found near 
Guards and/or Land Mines. 

c) Find the rusty door, which leads to the elevator to floor two. There 
are no Keys on this floor. 

d) Avoid the Land Mines and Poison Berry Bushes. This is easier said 
than done. There are a lot of Land Mines, and they're hard to spot, 
(small gray rectangles on the black forest floor). There are frequently, 
but not always, Health Berry Bushes near Land Mines. There are no 
Health reinforcements on this floor, other than Berry Bushes. 

Resist the temptation to shoot at the Suicide Clones, when trees 
separate you from them. You probably haven't found the Ammo depot 
at Secret #1 yet, and they're trying to use up most of your Ammo. 
Get them later. 

Kill Suicide Clones as quickly as possible, and always with The Pistol. 
It usually takes 3-4 shots to make them explode. You don't want them 
to be close to you when that happens. They move quickly, and don't 
call out, like the Guards do.

There's only one occaision where you'll be attacked from behind. It's 
immediately after when you battle two Suicide Clones. All other 
enemies attacking from the rear will hit Land Mines before they'll hit
you. 

As much of the forest looks the same, when searching for Treasure, 
it's best to pick an unique landmark as your starting point. Some good 
choices are:

i) The elevator to floor 2. Save your game before entering the elevator. 
If you have 100% Kill, but less than 100% treasure, multiply the 
Treasure percentage by 22. This will let you know how many Black 
Diamonds you still need to find. 

ii) The Gefahr signs, (Danger), at the beginning of the minefield, shortly
after the beginning, if you start the game going right. 

iii) The wooden building, where you'll find the second Secret. 

Note that there are many objects on this floor, (bushes, rocks, etc.), 
which appear to be solid, but you can walk over or through them. If you 
start your Treasure search at the wooden building, note that there is a 
shrub in the middle of the pathway at one point. If you go through the 
shrub, you will go in circles. If you treat the shrub as if it was a solid 
object, you can follow the perimeter to find any remaining Black 
Diamonds.

Do not assume that it is safe to move around the perimeter everywhere. 
There are some Poison Berry Bushes next to walls. Watch for Land Mines, 
and scout around in cul de sacs. It's often a good idea to exit the same 
way you go in, if you find nothing, or have already scooped the Treasure.

Floor 2:

You'll need to know which barrels to explode, and which columns to 
crumble, if you want to complete floor 2. 

There are seven Secrets on this floor, (objects must be found behind a 
push wall to be considered Secrets), and you'll have to explode the right
barrel and crumble the right column to find four of them. You'll also 
have to walk through some toxic sludge, with a variable loss of Health 
between 25 and 30%, if you want all of the Treasure. You'll also have to 
destroy a column to obtain your final Key, but it can be seen from the 
nearby corridor. Any barrels that will explode, or columns that will 
crumble, will do so with three direct gunshots. 

If you see Treasure behind a barrel, that barrel will explode, but don't 
be close to it when it happens, or you will suffer significant Health loss.

It's a good idea to clear the floor of Soldiers before opening any doors. 
Your first two secrets are close to the elevator, to your left, and to your 
right. There is a rusty door near the top, and six doors to your right. 
The third Secret, a series of Treasure rooms guarded by Clones, is found 
behind the first door. An exploding barrel with toxic sludge is behind 
the sixth door. You'll have to cross the sludge to get a 2,500 point Black 
Diamond, if you're playing for points and the Treasure bonus. 

Your first locked door, leading to the Bronze Key area, is behind door five.

Through the rusty door at the top, you'll find the last four Secrets, in two 
groups of double push walls. Demolish the correct columns in front of the
plainly visible Treasure, and you'll find two of them. Farther up the 
corridor, there are two Clones on opposite sides of the hallway, looking to 
make you dead. The one on the left is behind an exploding barrel; the one 
on your right is waiting for you be be within his line of sight, or for you 
to engage the other one on the opposite side. I went straight at the right 
side Clone, killed him quickly, and moved left, behind a bit of wall, to 
avoid the shots from the second Clone behind the barrel. He was much 
easier to kill, once he no longer had cover from the rear. 

The last two Secrets are behind him, including a door leading to the 
Artifact of Life, which raises your Health to 125%, and increases both 
Ammo types by 25 rounds. You should refrain from picking up the Artifact
until you have found the elevator to floor 3, otherwise you are unlikely 
to start the next floor with the maximum possible Health. 

Following the Clones on either side of the corridor, you'll find a door, 
behind which the Bronze Key is protected by a Guard and two SS Soldiers, 
one of whom is to your right, with some cover. Rather than engage him
directly, I crossed over to the right side of the door, and dispatched the 
two Soldiers within, using my Knife. If was then easier to lure the second 
SS Soldier into the room. If you're low on Ammo at this point, there is a 
box behind the left side door, when you have removed these three enemies 
from active duty. 

In the opening of the Bronze Key area, there are several Guards and Clones
between you and the Blood Key, at center, but out of sight. I went through
the door at right before firing any shots, and took them down as they either
exited the room, or came around the corner. Grab the Blood Key, and 
advance around to the left towards the next locked door. You'll again face a 
Clone menace on either side of the corridor, just before the door. Taking out 
the first column on the left, and the second column on the right, will make it 
easier for you to advance through the door unscathed. 

Through the Blood Key door, you'll see, directly in front of you, a Gold Key
door that you definitely don't want to open, (there's a barrel of toxic sludge
on the other side). around the corner left, break the column to engage a 
group of SS Soldiers and Guards, who are between you and the Blue Key. 

At the far left end of the room, behind some columns, (one of which is 
structurably unstable), is another Gold Key door. A Clone moves quickly
back and forth to the left, but he won't shoot at you. He's trying to make you
expend Ammo, like a duck in a shooting gallery. Find the Gold Key first, 
before battling him. It's behind a column in this general area. 

The Gold Key leads to the elevator to floor 3. Don't forget to go back for the
Artifact of Life. If will also give you 25 rounds of type 1 and 2 Ammo.

There are multiple situations on this floor where you can waste a lot of Ammo
if you don't know what to shoot at; barrels that won't explode, columns that
won't crumble, Clones that tease. A walk through the 'end 2' saved game
will be useful in knowing which barrels and columns are only temporary 
obstacles. Other than the toxic sludge filled barrel behind the first Gold Key
door, any exploding barrel or column will lead to something valuable, be it
Treasure, Ammo, Heath, Artifact, or Key.

Floor 3:

Floor 3 is very tough. With the exception of the three SS Soldiers that you'll
encounter just before the elevator to floor 4, you'll be fighting Clones 
exclusively, most of whom will be firing from positions where they can't be
seen, or can't be seen clearly. There are many places where you will expend a
lot more Ammo than you'd like. You'll use a lot of Ammo destroying columns
to either advance through a portion of the maze, gain a better shooting angle
at Clones, or to find a Key, some Treasure, or a Secret. 

Most of the Ammo reinforements will be found in boxes of 25, usually two or
three together. Wherever possible, I've left one behind in the 'end 3' saved
game, so you'll know where they are. 

The first of five Secrets is to your right, just past the elevator. Go straight up,

through the rusty door, and enter the middle door. On the back wall is 
Secret #2, the MCS Mk3. In the Ammo room at the far end of the left branch,
you'll find Secrets #3 and #4.  The last one was very difficult to find. It's 
behind a column in the Bronze Key area, and contains nothing; it's only value
is towards the Secrets bonus.  You'll also find the Artifact of Life in the Bronze

Key area, but it doesn't count as a Secret. If your Health is strong, consider
waiting until you've cleared the floor before picking it up. With multiple
saving, I was able to complete this floor without any loss of Health, so the
maximum Health going into floor 4 is 150%

The Blood and Blue Keys are found behind crumbled columns, near the far
ends of the right and left branches from the top. The Blood Key is behind a
door in a large wood panelled Treasure room, guarded by multiple Clones.
The Blue Key is visible from the corridor, guarded by one Clone.  The Bronze 
Key is behind the Blood Key door, and the Bronze Key area contains the Gold, 
(elevator), Key.

On this floor, the most important thing to do is to kill your enemies in the 
proper sequence. This may also require that you first remove the proper 
columns. Several areas are very frustrating immediately, because you will be
under attack, but unable to see your assailants. The Clones fire very 
accurately, even at long distance, and when shielded by columns. When you
have an enemy in front of you, you often have one or two on either side, as 
well, which makes it hard to advance into the room. Precise shooting angles
make all the difference on this floor.

Whenever possible, you'll want to do the following: 

a) If you have enemy attack from the center, right, and left, always try to 
remove the center threat first. Your MCS Mk3 will be useful in dropping an
opponent from a distance, as it fires bullets three wide.

b) When there is an enemy behind a crumbling column, remove the column
first. 

c) Make use of nooks in the wall that may be good spots from both an 
offensive and defensive point of view. You won't do well if you proceed in a 
linear direction. There's a lot of quick advancing in a specific direction, then

doubling back to deal with the additional Clones coming towards your rear
flank, or the angles to shoot at them are better, if you approach them from
the opposite direction. 

d) Know which columns will crumble, and which ones won't. Use your Knife
to test or crumble columns if the area's been cleared. Other than to add the
MCS Mk3 to your weapons array, none of the Secrets is of immediate 
importance. 

e) Be aware of your route to Health reinforcement. It is possible to play this
entire floor without loss of any Health, but it's unlikely, unless you want to
spend an hour plus net time doing so. Most of the Health is in just a few
locations, but there's usually a lot of it, when you do find it. 

The two rooms to the right and left, through the rusty door opposite the 
elevator, lead to similar obstacles; there are multiple Clones on either side, 
behind columns, just past the doorway. I ran quickly to the far end of the 
room, and worked my way backwards in a crisscross pattern, using the 
alcoves of defeated Clones to remove columns on the opposite side, to get a 
better shooting angle, then repeated as I moved closer to the door from 
which I'd entered. 

There's an extensive area behind the third column on your left as you exit 
the elevator. Use the center enemy first, columns next, crisscrossing pattern 
in this area as well. It took me a while to find the Bronze Key door. If you 
follow the perimeter, you will find it. 

Floor 4. 

Floor 4 isn't too difficult, provided that you find the Artifact of Invulnerability

before you use the Artifact of Displacement. 

Have a Machine Gun in hand as you exit the elevator, as you will have to 
immediately face two Suicide Clones. Take out the exploding barrels to the
right and left. The ones on the left will also crumble two columns. Watch out
for toxic sludge on either side before going left. You'll find your first Secret 

on the wall when you take the left direction from the elevator. 

It is possible to kill all of the Guards and SS Soldiers in the next room using
only The Knife. In fact, if you can kill the Guards in and around the central
area, you can contain the other Guards and SS Soldiers, and you'll find it
much easier to take them out when they aren't coming out of the room
prematurely. There isn't a lot of Health to be found on this floor, so play it 
smart. There are a couple of places where you can dispatch enemies by 
exploding a barrel near them, starting with the room after the door on your
left, where you'll find a number of Clones, several of them suicidal. Make your
presence known in the doorway, then fall back to the corner, so that the door
is on your upper right. Use the barrel to drop the first one, and let a few more

come out the door, before you go in to get the rest. 

The Bronze Key is in the room at the far right corner, with the two silver
doors. You'll also find the second Secret on the wall in that room. 

Through the right side door from the initial room with the Guards and SS 
Soldiers, you'll confront a number of Suicide Clones. Let them come to you 
while you wait for them in the doorway. Try to kill the first one in the 
second doorway, so you won't have to keep opening the doors, and possibly 
meet up with a Suicide Clone between the two doors, where they can do a 
lot of damage to your Health. A couple of them will hang back in the next 
hall. Destroy them and kill the Guard before entering any of the rooms. 

There are multiple Bronze Key doors in the right side hall, (and one near the
elevator that starts the floor). Secret #3 is in the washroom, a Blood Key 
Door leading to a Treasure room. The Blood Key itself is well guarded one 
room to the right of the washroom. There are two doors to the Blood Key. 
Go through the right hand door, and go around to the door on your left. 
Draw the SS Soldiers back towards the previous room, and take out two 
of them at once with the exploding barrel. The other two will be much easier
to get after that. 

Although there are two Blood Key Doors, only the one to the Treasure room 
is needed. The other one will bring you more quickly to the area where the 
Artifact of Displacement is, but you can also get there through one of the 
Bronze Key doors. Near the Purple Artifact of Displacement, you'll find the
fourth Secret, the Artifact of Life, in the corner near the Gold Key door. 
The yellow Artifact of Invulnerability is in the same room as the Artifact of 
Displacement, which will teleport you beyond the Gold Key door. If you 
haven't picked up the Artifact of Invulnerability first, the Clones on the 
other side will make short work of you. 

Your temporary omnipotence will have expired before you can defeat all of 
the SS Soldiers, Guards, and Officers behind the room with five doors. On 
either side of this room is a wooded area with pillars. You should draw out 
the Soldiers behind the pillars first. A shot should attract their attention. 
Make sure you get them on either side, before approaching the doors, 
otherwise you will be fired upon from both the front and rear simultaneously. 
Use the corner for some cover as you battle the multiple SS Soldiers. Three 
Officers may remain behind in the room. Flush them out from the last door, 
if necessary. The Gold Key is in the room to which you teleport from the 
Artifact of Displacement, and the Blue Key is in the room with the SS 
Soldiers and Officers.

Two Suicide Clones guard the elevator in the Gold Key area, behind the single
door near the left side forest and pillars. The sixth and last Secret, a Treasure

room, is directly opposite on the far wall. Be sure to top up your Health and
Ammo before advancing to floor 5, and grab the Artifact of Life, if you left it
behind. You'll need it when you face the Super Clone on the next level.

Floor 5:

The elevators are separated by three pillars, but you'll need all four Keys to 
finish this floor.

In the opening hall, there are two rusty doors. The left is a Health room, and 
the right is an Ammo room. There's a Blood Key door at the top. You start 
with the silver door, on your right, which brings you next to the elevator
to floor 6. 

You'll use a lot of Ammo on this floor, mostly from the MCS Mk3, and you 
don't want to waste its' Ammo on Soldiers. The first group can be killed with 
either The Knife or The Machine Gun. 

In the next room, use the exploding barrels in front of the MCS Mk3 to take 
out three SS Soldiers in one explosion. Both pillars will crumble.

Directly across from the middle pillar, through two doors and a crumbling 
pillar, you'll find the first Secret, the Artifact of Invulnerability. It's behind 

a barrel of toxic sludge, however, and you'll have to take two significant hits 

to your Health to pick it up. 


It's impossible to explode the barrel without loss of Health. The best I could do

was -37%, from 175% to 138%. On a few occaisions, there is no toxic sludge 
from the barrel. I think it's random, because it's not specific to any weapon. 

You'll want to explode the barrel, but leave the Artifact until you have the 
Bronze Key, and are ready to face the Super Clone. 

The next hall has silver doors at right angles to each other on each of the left 

and right corners. Take out the two Clones in each corner first. Go right and 
open the first door on your left. Let the Clones come out to you, before going 
in to wrap things up. Don't go to the end of the corridor, by the Blood Key, or 

some Guards and SS Soldiers will come through the Blood Key door behind 
you.  

After clearing the armory, go down the left side, and test the perimeter by the
swastika flag. This will bring several Soldiers out from the last door on your 
right. One Officer will remain behind, guarding the Blood Key. Secret #2, the 
Artifact of Life, is in the same room as the Blood Key. The second Blood Key 
door brings you to the corridor on the other side of the armory. The third
Blood Key door is across, through a door, and to your right, from the opening 
elevator. You can steal the Bronze Key from in front of the Super Clone, who's 
separated from you by a non crumbling column. At this point, you want to 
withdraw to the room by the end elevator, so that Super Clone has time to 
make his move.

He usually goes to the Ammo room, behind the rusty door to your right as you 
face the Blood Key door. fire a few shots at him to get his attention, and 
withdraw towards the end elevator room. Make sure he is following you. Keep 
him one room behind you as you withdraw to the room with the Artifact of 
Invulnerability, (this is why you would want to explode the toxic barrel earlier, 

because you'll want to grab the Artifact quickly. When the Super Clone enters 
the last door between you, take the Artifact and advance towards him, in a 
steady stream of bullets from the MCS Mk3. You should be able to kill him 
before the Invulnerability wears off. The dead Super Clone coughs up the 
Gold Key. 

Although there are several Bronze Key doors, don't open them until after you 
have defeated the Super Clone. Make sure your Ammo, for the MCS Mk3 in 
particular, is at Maximum. There were several boxes in the room with the 
Artifact of Invulnerability, and I think I used them all. 

You'll have to kill a lot of Clones to get to the Blue Key.  You can clear the 
Bronze Key area first, and find the fourth Secret, a Health and MCS Mk3 
Ammo room, to the left of the Blue Key. You need to go through the Gold Key 
door, on your left on the left side of the armory, (near where you got the 
Blood Key), to get to the chamber where the Blue Key is, but after clearing 
the room of Clones, (watch for the Suicide Clone, at the second Gold Key 
door, at the top of the room), instead double back towards the Bronze Key 
area. Top up your MCS Mk3 Ammo on the way over, or you might be fighting 
Clones with a Knife. 

You don't want to go directly through the Gold Key door to the Blue Key, 
because about seven additional Clones will come out of nowhere, and it's very 
difficult to kill them, as there will be non crumbling columns between you. 

The last Secret is in the wall, behind the Blue Key. Pick it up, and use it to 
advance to floor 6. Pick up the Artifact of Life first, if you were saving it for 

the end of the floor. This is a 15,000 point Boss Bonus floor, so I can't tell 
from stats, but I looked carefully, and am confident that there are only five 
Secrets. 

Floor 6: 

Your first Secret on floor 6 is in the health and Ammo room on your right, as 
you exit the elevator. Through the rusty door on your left, there's a room 
with several guards. If you appear in the doorway, but don't enter, you can
lure them out to the corridor, one at a time, to die by Knife thrust, but if you 

enter the room and withdraw, they will come out together, and there isn't a 
good angle for multiple Knife kills on the left side, and there's a pillar on your 

right. A few Machine Gun rounds will also work. 

Two guards are behind the columns on your right, as you enter the room. One 
of the columns will crumble, allowing you access to the Gold Key area. You can 
also get through the Gold Key door by firing at the Artifacts behind the 
columns on your left, and killing the guard as he leaves the Gold Key door. 

All of the Guards in the next hall can be lured to the Gold Key doorway, or 
killed in the open, using The Knife. The machine Gun would work, as well. This 
game allows you to stab around corners, which is very handy when facing 
several consecutive guards. 

Go through the door on the right, near the four Blood Key doors. You'll find the 

Bronze Key in a room beyond the fourth door in the washroom on your left. 
For the right hand rooms, clear the first room behind each door, but do not 
go through the second doors. The second doors on the right hand rooms lead 
to the area behind the two silver doors around the corner to the right from 
the Blood Key doors. By clearing most of the Officers from the corridor near 
the Blood Key doors first, you'll only have two or three Officers Left behind the 

pair of silver doors, instead of five or six emerging from the two doors at the 

same time. Before going to the Bronze Key area, I've only used my Machine 
Gun twice; once to take out the two Guards behind the columns near the 
Gold Key door, and again for one of the two Officers left behind the double 
silver doors. Everything else can be done with The Knife, but that's just my 
playing style.

The second Secret is on the left side wall, near the first Blood Key door. It 
leads to the Arifact of Life and Invulnerability, seen earlier in the room behind 

the Gold Key door. 

Past the Bronze Key doors are two or more Guards, depending on how many 
came out earlier when you entered the right side door from the Gold Key area. 

The third Secret is on the wall opposite to, and left from, the leftmost Bronze 

Key door. 

Through trial and error, I learned to avoid the two doors on the left and right 

of the Blood Key doors at the far right of the Bronze Key area. It's better to 
have the Blood Key first before opening these. I instead started at the wooden 
door to the right of the Hitler portrait opposite the Bronze Key doors. From 
there, it was on to the armory, to the left of the Bronze Key doors. 

At the back of the armory, there is a door on the left with a Suicide Clone, 
and a Blood Key door behind him, (this Blood Key door leads to the main hall 
after the Gold Key door at the beginning) . There is a single Gold Key door to 
the right. Through the center door, there are three doors, behind which a are 
several SS Soldiers guarding the Blood Key, past the left hand door. There are 
multiple exploding barrels in that room, some which can be used to your 
advantage, and some which will cause you massive Health loss if you explode 
them in an attack. 

Open the center door first, and take out the Soldiers in the middle by exploding 

the barrel near them. Next open the right side door, and from around the corner, 

kill the SS Soldier WITHOUT exploding the barrel. You can then kill the other 
two SS Soldiers on the left side by shooting to your left from the middle door. 

Pick up the Blood Key after you've killed them all. Take note of the second 
Artifact of Life, or pick it up if you need the Health Boost. 

In the Blood Key area of the main hall, there are a number of Guards, easily 
dispatched with your Knife. You will see the Artifact of Displacement in front 
of the four Gold Key doors. To survive your next test, you will need a full 
compliment of 150 rounds for your Machine Gun, and perfect execution, as you 
will probably need all 150 rounds to kill the flood of SS Soldiers who will be 
attacking you simultaneously. The MCS Mk3 would run out of Ammo before 
you would run out of SS, and there's no time to switch weapons. 

Use the Artifact of Displacement to cross over into the Gold Key area, quickly 
grab the Gold Key, and teleport back. Run like hell around the corner to your 
right, and go through the Secret door on your right to use the Artifact of 
Invincibility. Run back to the four Gold Key doors, and confront at least 20 
SS Soldiers coming out of the Gold Key doors. Make sure none of them can get 
behind you. If you are an excellent shot, you can just barely kill all of them 
before your Machine Gun Ammo and Invulnerability run out. One SS Soldier 
will remain behind the Gold Key doors, on your right as you enter. 

You can get all of the Treasure in the Gold Key zone by crumbling the proper 
columns. Use the Artifact of Displacement again to find the fourth secret, an 
Artifact of Life, the third such on this floor. Now go back to the single Gold Key 

door in the Armory. One Guard is behind the door, and he stands between you 
and the Blue Key. The fifth Secret, a Treasure room, is behind the Blue Key. 

Use the Blue Key to open the third elevator from the left, directly across from
the four Gold Key doors.

The sixth and last Secret, (or the third, in hindsight), is in the same room as 

the Artifacts of Life and Displacement. It's guarded by three Suicide Clones, 
and it's the MCS Mk4 rifle. Bring it with you to floor 7, but there really wasn't 

any place on floor 6 where it was needed.

Floor 7: 

There's really no excuse for not having at least 150% health when you complete
floor 7, as there are six Artifacts of Life among the Secrets. There's also an
Artifact of Invulnerability, which you probably won't need to use, and two 
Artifacts of Displacement, which will transport you to the areas where you'll
find the Gold and Blue Keys. We'll also see the Artifact of Death for the first
time, which you can use to your advantage as you exit the elevator from floor 6.

I think I only needed to use an MCS rifle on this floor only once. This is a floor 

where you'll want to conserve Ammo, though,because the reserves are often 
far from where you need them.


The right side column opposite the four elevators will crumble, but you don't
want to do that until you have allowed the Artifact of Death to take care of
the Guards and SS Soldiers in the hall beyond the silver door. Let the Soldiers
see you through the gap between the columns, and hide behind the wall to the
right, between the silver door and the crumbling column. The Soldiers will
come through the door one at a time, and die as they reach the Artifact of 
Death. When no more are coming through, fire a single shot through the right
side gap beside the crumbling column to draw out the last few Soldiers. Note
that the Artifact of Death loses its' potency as more and more Soldiers die
on top of it, so the last one might get through. Do not attempt to retrieve 
Ammo from the Soldiers who have died on the Artifact of Death. Crumble the 
column when you are no longer in immenent danger, and advance into the hall. 

In the next hall, you'll find a Blood Key door on your left, and a Bronze Key 
door on your right, as well as a silver door, also to the right, which will lead 

you to the Blood Key. After eliminating the two Clones, dispatch the Guard on 
the right, and crumble the column in the room on your right to find the first 
Secret. You can lure several of the Guards from the next hall back to the 
crumbled column, to die by your Knife. You might have to face several of them 
at the same time, if you use gunfire. 

There are two Clones behind each of the two doors on your left, one Suicide
Clone and one regular Clone. Lure them out, instead of trying to kill them in 
the cramped space behind the doors. There are several more opportunities 
where Ammo can be saved by using The Knife. You'll find the Blood Key in the
room at upper left as you enter this area, through the wooden door between
two rectangular stone blocks. In the room at the far end, upper right, you'll
find a Gold Key door, but you won't be able to open it from this side. You'll use

it near the end of the game, from the other other side, mainly to retrieve 
Health and Ammo after finding the elevator to floor 8. Return to the Blood Key
door, in the hall beyond the Artifact of Death. 

You'll want to use your Knife in the early part of the Blood Key area, as there 

are several Guards patrolling, and some SS Soldiers and a Guard who will come 
out from behind doors, if they hear comotion. If you go to the washroom at the 
far left end of the Blood Key area, you'll find the second Secret, the Artifact of

Invulnerability, which you might be tempted to use in the brown brick area at
the far right of the corridor. Resist the temptation to do so, unless you have
already lured the Guards and SS Soldiers out to the main corridor, and are 
using the Artifact of Invulnerability for the remaining Clones only.

On the left hand side of the corridor, there are two doors leading to an armory.

Much of the armory is blocked by barrels, but you can't get past until you have
the Bronze Key. I recommend that you clear the area behind the first armory
door, but leave the second door, (behind which is one Guard, near an exploding
barrel, and the first Artifact of Displacement). SS Soldiers and/or Guards will 

randomly come out of the brown brick room at the far right, and you'll want to 
finish with them before taking out the Guard by the Artifact of Displacement.
 
As mentioned above, it might seem like it would be easier to clear the brown 
brick area at the far right end while under the protection of the Artifact of 
Invincibility, but you will run out of Ammo before killing all of the Guards, 
SS Soldiers, and Clones in that area. You'll hear an "ugh" sound when you are
no longer Invulnerable. 

The Soldiers can be coaxed out to the main corridor, and if you go through the 
third corridor door, (past the armory), one or two of the three Clones on the 
left side of the room can be killed with an exploding barrel. 

When this area is cleared, you can go back and take out the Guard near the 
first Artifact of Displacement. 

There are two rusty doors in the brown brick area. which you have to clear 
of Soldiers and Clones. It doesn't matter which one of the rusty doors you go 
through, they'll both lead you to the Bronze Key. A mossy brick passage 
behind each of the rusty doors leads you to the heavily guarded Bronze Key.
If you enter through the upper door, near where Treasure can be seen behind
pillars, you'll find the third, fourth, and fifth Secrets, (directly left of the 

Bronze Key itself, if you find that first). You'll first find a number of Black 

Diamonds at the end of a twisting gray passage, and two additional push walls 
will give you four Artifacts of Life. One of the push walls is behind one of the 

Artifacts, where you'll find a fourth Artifact of Life. You may find that you're 

picking up one or more of the Artifacts of Life immediately, if not for the 
Health, then for the 25 round increase to both your conventional and MCS 
Ammo. 

Several doors are opened by the Bronze Key. If you want the all killed bonus, 
You can use exploding barrels to kill the Guard and SS Soldiers in two rooms
connected to a Bronze Key door. In the second room, one of the SS Soldiers 
can be killed with the Knife. 

All Bronze Key door paths will eventually end with the room you can see from
the main brown brick area, with a red barrel and a corroded one. Be ready to 
face two Clones when you open the door in the back. Another one, and an SS
Soldier, are waiting a little farther on. At the end of the hall, there are a few 

Guards in the armory, but they're not tough to take out. You'll find the sixth
Secret in the armory, another Artifact of Life. It's in the corner by the door
of the same room as the Artifact of displacement. When you've taken 
everything of value from the armory, use the Artifact of Displacement to 
move to the area where you'll be able to get the Gold Key, (the Gold Key can be 

seen in the brown brick area).
 
You'll have two Clones on your right and left as you push the wall. The right side

column crumbles. You'll have a couple of additional Clones to deal with, and
two more hidden in the corner rooms of Treasure and MCS gun and Ammo.
Additional Clones will come through the Bronze Key door on your left as you 
turn the corner going right. I used the MCS Mk4 to take out the Clone in the 
back corner of the MCS gun and Ammo room. You can now go through the 
Bronze Key door to get some Treasure and the Gold Key, Through the Gold Key
door, four Clones, one alone, and three more around the corner, guard the 
second Artifact of Displacement. It brings you to a room where two Clones are
guarding the Blue Key. Yet another Artifact of Life is the seventh Secret, 
behind the Blue Key. The Gold Key Door leads to an ante room with Gold Key
doors on the left and the right. The left door leads back to the room not far from

where you found the Blood Key, where you found a Gold Key door earlier. It 
makes it handy to go back and pick things up, after you dispatch the three 
more Suicide Clones who stand between you and the elevator to floor 8.

Floor 8:

Several interesting challenges are presented on floor 8. To do well, you must
often resist the urge to do what has usually been successful in the past. You
won't be able to leave this floor without suffering some significant loss of 
Health, unless you're not playing for the Kill, Secrets, and Treaure bonuses.

There are ten Secrets on this floor, and you won't be able to find all of them if

you just test the outer perimeter. I recommend that you either test each room
as you clear it, or treat locked doors as part of the perimeter, and seach the
area behind each as a separate section. You can also just go directly to the 
spots described in these notes.

You can find the first four Secrets by the time you find the Bronze Key. The 
first two are on either side of the Hitler monuments, just to your left as you
exit the elevator. The third is behind the parquet wall, just before the room to

the right of the Bronze Key door, where you'll find the Bronze Key and the
fourth Secret. I cleared the other rooms in the initial hall before going into the

Bronze Key area. In the initial hall, The Knife can be used to some extent, but
most of the rooms have three Officers inside, so you'll need a firearm to take
down at least the first two, (there are many more than three Officers in the
room with the Bronze Key and Secret #4).

The fifth Secret can also be found before entering the Bronze Key area. It's
in the corner of the room directly across from the second Secret, (a Machine
Gun).

The Bronze Key door gains you access to a hall with a single Guard patrolling.
To your far right are two Blood Key doors, and to your left are two silver doors, 

which lead to a room with five barrels, toxic sludge pools on the floor, and
pillars separating you from a forested area, in which two Guards and an SS
Soldier have their sights on you. They can also go around the corner outside
of the room. All of the barrels will explode except the corroded one and the
one on the left side wall. I used the MCS Mk4 to take out the Guard at the far 
end, then lined myself up between a pillar and the stone block beside it, and
waited to shoot until I could see the enemy through the gap to get the other
two. There are several strategies that will work here. Expect to use a fair bit
of Ammo taking out these three Soldiers, as they will move quickly back and
forth behind the pillars, like ducks in a shooting gallery - but these ducks shoot

back. Somee of the exploding barrels may kill guards, and most will add extra
toxic sludge to the floor. 

The door on your left leads to a series of three white stone rooms and a room
with four Suicide Clones, which you will have to navigate to get the Blood Key. 

One Clone will be waiting for you, in front of a door, and behind a water well, as 

you enter the first room. Sometimes you can see the Blood Key behind him. As 
you advance into the room, other Clones will move in the opposite direction, 
trying to get behind you. Move a little forward, then turn and engage the Clone 

who moves into the gap between wells. Be careful to not use up too much 
Ammo against these Clones, particularly MCS rounds. Switch weapons between
rooms, if necessary. You'll have the opportunity to replenish much of your
Type 1 ammo when you get past the room of Suicide Clones, as there will be an
unguarded Ammo box and six 4 round clips, left behind by the Clones from
behind the wells in the first three white stone rooms. If any of those Clones
managed to get behind you, you will have to face them before obtaining the
Blood Key. 

In the second of the white stone rooms, a Blood Key door can be seen behind 
the water wells on your left. After you have the Blood Key, certain parts of the

white stone rooms can be accessed from either of a Bronze or Blood Key door. 
This is why this secret is difficult to find, as it is in an area bound by Bronze 

and Blood Key doors, but not part of the outer maze perimeter. Check the wall
of the second white stone room, behind a med kit, for an Artifact of Life. 

Go back through the rooms to the double Blood Key doors in the Bronze Key
area, (the single Blood Key door in an Officer's bureau only leads to areas that

you can also be accessed with the Bronze Key, and it's sole purpose is to make 
one of the Secrets difficult to discover). 

Past the Blood Key doors, you'll meet some spirited resistence from several
Guards and SS Soldiers. I lured as many as I could into the Bronze Key hall, 
and stayed behind the second stone block with swastika flag, so that there
was on Blood Key door on either side, in front of me. It made it much easier
to kill the Soldiers at close range as they approached the block. Those that 
remained inside the Blood Key area hall weren't too much trouble, once their
numbers were thinned considerably. Don't linger in the Blood Key doorway,
because there is an SS Soldier, on the other side of the room, who will shoot
at you through the gap between pillars in the middle chamber. The Gold Key
is visible there, but you'll need the Artifact of Displacement to get it.

Watch out for the Suicide Clone as you open one of the silver doors to the right

of the Gold Key chamber. Use the door on the right, and kill the two SS Soldiers

behind the columns opposite to you before entering the room. There is also a
Guard in the forest behind pillars to your left. Grab the SS Soldiers' Ammo 
before going through the silver door. It leads you to the end elevator area, on
the other side of the pillars that separate you from the start elevator. If
you didn't kill him earlier while collecting Secrets, you'll find one Guard 
between you and the silver door on the other side.

The next room is a mirror image of the one on the other side, before the end 
elevator area; two SS Soldiers behind columns to your left, a Suicide Clone in
the room, and a Guard behind pillars in the forest. This time, dispatch the 
Suicide Clone, then the SS Soldiers, the the Guard. You will waste a lot of 
Ammo if you try to kill the Guard behind the pillars from a distance - Ammo
that you'll need in the next room.

Nine or Ten Guards and Officers will pour out when you open one of the two 
silver doors opposite the SS Soldiers. Open the right door, and retreat to the 
door around the corner and kill almost all of them on the same spot. Watch 
out for one or two Officers who may linger on the other side of the central
chamber. 

Top up your Ammo for the next section, even if it means backtracking several
rooms. The two doors on the upper and lower sides of the central chamber both
lead to the same place, a room with a door at upper left, and an area behind
pillars. There is also a third door, in the middle, which is the passage to the
Artifact of Displacement, guarded by three Clones. Deafeating them will give
you the Gold Key.

Through the silver door at upper left, there's a passage with barrels on the 
right, and a door at the far end. I think all of the barrels will explode. Most of 

them contain toxic sludge. You can bypass this area, and go directly to the
Gold Key Doors, if you're not playing for Kill, Secret, and Treasure bonuses. 

Your first impulse might be to come in firing, using the door as a shield on your

right. This won't get you far, as you will lose a lot of Health from both the
barrel explosion and the toxic sludge, not tp mention the mob of Guards who'll
pour through the hole created by the exploded barrel. Instead of doing this, run

to the door at the far end of the barrel passage, and from the next room, lure 
two or three of the Guards at a time to the pillared area. You should be able to 

kill them with an MCS rifle from there. Go back along the barrel passage, and
again drop a couple of additional Guards. You can do it a third time, but by then

only one more Guard is stupid enough to show himself behind the pillars. 

Entering from the rear room, you'll need to explode the first barrel, on your left

as you open the door. You'll take a major Health hit when it blow up. The best
I could do was 35%, from 200%-165%. Sometimes this first barrel has toxic
sludge in it, and you take a second Health hit. Sometimes, it doesn't. I'm not 
if the lack of toxic sludge is a random occurance, or if it's tied to the amount 

of Health lost in the explosion, (a smaller loss being good). If your health goes

down by more than 40%, or if you are exposed to the sludge, try again, if you 
have the game saved.

The reason you don't want to explode a different barrel is that the one on the
far end of the passage will explode itself and the next one up, but the one at
the entrance will explode all of them. Don't try to explode any of the middle
barrels, because the multiple explosions will be two close, and Guards will fire

on you from both the front and rear. 

When you have cleared the Guards, you'll find a Health room and an Ammo 
room, and a passage to your left, where you'll have one SS Soldier to make 
make dead. Your reward is the seventh, eighth, and ninth Secrets, in the upper
left corner of the hall the SS Soldier is guarding. There's an Artifact of Life, 

an MCS Mk3 rifle with Ammo, and the Artifact of Invincibility, guarded by a 
Clone, (The Artifact of Invincibility can be seen opposite the Gold Key doors, at 

left, behind a column).

In the right hand corner, opposite the Gold Key doors, you'll find the tenth, and

final, Secret. 

I found the Artifact of Invincibility after clearing the Gold Key area, which 
contains the Blue Key. It's possible that the Artifact can help you in the Gold
Key area, but its' position, relative to the Gold Key area, is such that much of

the temporary invulnerability will be lost in the time it takes to get from one 

place to the other. It's use might also prompt you to use too much Ammo, and
be holding a Knife when the Artifact's power wears off. 

Retrace your steps to the four end elevators. The second from the left contains
a Suicide Clone. The second from the right will bring you to floor 9.

Floor 9:

Good Knife skills will serve you well on floor 9. The large numbers of enemies
that you will face at one time, on multiple occaisions, make it very easy to
run out of Ammo in mid battle. Fortunately, you'll have a nearby nook with a
90 degree angle, so you can face them one at a time.

Take a ride on the Artifact of Displacement, to the other side of the Blood Key
doors. A Guard and two Officers stand between you and the Blood Key, which 
opens several doors on each side of the the two groups of  elevators. If you 
kill these three with The Knife, you won't have to immediately deal with two
or three additional Officers who, alerted by the gunfire, will emerge from 
behind one of the Blood Key doors, and fire at you from the rear. Consider this 

to be a stealth floor. Take advantage of your ability to stab around the corners 

of doorways. 

The first two Secrets are on either side of the Blood Key. Note that, if a 
Secret push wall has been activated, you must wait until it's completely open
before attempting to open another one.

With Blood Key in hand, you have the option of chosing from four Blood Key
doors to begin. Go to the first door on your right, as you leave the rooms with 

the Blood Key and the first two Secrets. Open the door, and run to the Secret 
Health room. A number of Officers will follow you from behind the Blood Key 
door. Hide around the corner of the Secret room, and you can kill each of them 
with your Knife as they pass in front of you. The purpose of this is to thin the 

ranks behind the Blood Key doors, and to conserve Ammo.  

When luring Guards and Officers to the Health secret entrance, always open the
silver door to the main hall again, after you enter, so that when you open a 
Blood Key door, you can run back to your hiding place, without being slowed
down reopening the silver door. 

Repeat this procedure an additional two times, and you should be able to clear
all of the Officers and the Guard from behind this first Blood Key area. As long 

as there is no gunfire, you won't have to deal with the Officers and Guards 
behind the other Blood Key doors until you have cleared the first two Blood 
Key areas.

It's difficult to coax the last Officer out from the Blood Key area on the left. 
If
you can't get him in the doorway, try to make him come out, and use the stone
block across from the door as cover. He will come towards you on the left.

Cross the Hall to the first Blood Key area that you cleared, and fire through the 

columns at the Soldiers in the next Blood Key area. You should probably use an
MCS rifle at that range. This will not alert the Soldiers in the fourth Blood Key

area, but the same is not true if you try to clear the second room on the left
first. You'll have a good shooting angle between the wall and the first column,
and an even better one after crumbling a few columns. Watch out for one 
Officer, (sometimes two), who will exit the door, and try to come around behind 

you. Exit through the first Blood Key door on the right, rather than the second.


There are two Officers and one Guard behind the last Blood Key door, at upper 
left. They will stay in their room until you arrive, if you go back into the hall 

through the first Blood Key door on the right. If you exit to the hall from the 

second Blood Key area on the right, (or if you remain in the hall itself too long, 

without moving), they will come out on their own accord. 

You'll find the third, fourth, and fifth Secrets as a series of push walls in the

second Blood Key area on the right. It's a valuable Secret, (four Artifacts of 
Life, and some Treasure), but it's heavily guarded by 16 or 17 Suicide Clones 
and two regular Clones. Before entering the Secret area, however, you should 
first clear the second hall to your right, past two additional pairs of Blood Key 

doors, (the first pair return you to the elevator area where the floor starts). 

Use this opportunity to top up your Ammo before proceeding. 

When clearing the Secret area, back up from the door, and let Suicide Clones
come to you. You can kill 8 or 9 of them before actually entering the room. 
Avoid tight corners, as they are often primed for detonation. Go right, and 
circle. Clear the perimeter before entering the middle area. 

As you navigate this third Blood Key hall, you'll see two Bronze Key doors on
your far left and right, and two wooden doors at the top. The sixth Secret is 
on the right side wall, just before the plane created by the two Bronze Key
doors. Watch for a couple of Officers coming out of the wooden doors, which 
lead to a washroom. Beyond the washroom, there is another corridor, with
a second set of Bronze Key door at either end. An SS Soldier will fire at you 
from the left, then pursue you down the hall. Stay out of his sights, and the 
Artifact of Death, in the middle of the corridor, will kill him for you. 

Behind the Bronze Key doors, there are at least 20 Soldiers; mostly Officers,
but a few Guards, SS Soldiers, and a couple of Suicide Clones.  Sometimes they 
will remain behind the Bronze Key doors when you go return to the washroom 
after clearing the Secret area. Other times they will pour out as soon as you 
cross the plane of the Bronze Key doors in the hall.

They poured out the first time I played this section, but not when replaying for

these notes. Whether or not they pour out is not tied to your Health level, as
I've passed the Bronze Key doors with 200% Health, and also lesser amounts.
It's also not triggered by gunfire. It may be tied to the amount of Type 1 or 2 

Ammo that you have, or where and how you killed some of the Soldiers, or 
perhaps whether or not you've had any loss of Health to date on this floor, (I
hadn't had any at the point where they poured out). My guess is that it's tied
to Ammo, because this doesn't seem like a random element. I had fairly low
Type 1 Ammo when they poured out.

If they pour out, go through the washroom door, and through the door at the 
back. When you see two more doors ahead of you, go through the right side 
door. A Clone will be behind an exploding barrel around the corner to your right.

Kill the Clone WITHOUT exploding the barrel; you'll need it to prevent any of 
the hoarde from attacking you from behind. Make your stand in front of the
exploding barrel, and wait for the flood of Soldiers to find you. If you're really

good with The Knife, you can kill 12 Soldiers, (mostly Officers, but at least one

Guard and one SS Soldier), with The Knife. You'll have to switch to a firearm 
before the Suicide Clone arrives, (there will be a lull of a few seconds, and 
usually another SS Soldier will precede the Suicide Clone). If any of the Soldiers

hits you while you are trying to stab them to death, the Suicide Clone will 
appear sooner, perhaps as the fifth or sixth to reach your position. Don't 
attempt to kill the Suicide Clone with your Knife.

A few Officers will hang back in the gray corridor with the Artifact of Death. 
If you open the wooden door on your right, you can draw a couple more in to the
killing zone. When no more come after you, it's safe to procede to the next 
room, to your left in the room with the exploding barrel. Once again, poke your
head in the doorway, withdraw, and let several Suicide Clones come to you, and 
take them out from a reasonable distance. Enter the armory, and go right. 
Watch for two Suicide Clones in between the second and third Ammo cabinets.
One more Clone is in the upper left corner of the room. 

When you have cleared the armory, go through the door at the far end, near the
last dead Clone. Go through the white brick and the wood panelled passages. 
Past the door at the end of the wood panelled passage is the Bronze Key. 

If you faced the flood of Soldiers, this next part is fairly easy; grab the Bronze

Key, and pick off the two Officers on the other side of the pillars. If you have

yet to face the Soldiers in the Bronze Key area, there will be many additional
Soldiers, mostly Officers, firing at you as you attempt to grab the Key.

The room with pillars, adjacent to where you found the Bronze Key, has two
entrances, one is the left side Bronze Key door, from the hall. The other is from

a silver door that is across from the side door of the armory. Other than the 
two Officers who attempt to keep you from the Bronze Key, there are two 
Guards in the room. The Guards will not approach the pillars, so you'll have to 

enter the room to kill them. 

If you don't face the flood of Soldiers from the Bronze Key doors, the room with

the exploding barrel will have two additional Clones and a Guard in it, (plus the

Clone behind the barrel). 

It's a whole lot easier if there is no flood of Soldiers, as the twenty or so 
enemies will be spread out through three rooms. Don't use the gray corridor to
move between Bronze Key areas, or you're likely to cross the Artifact of Death,
and it's life over. 

The other Bronze Key door, at far right, will lead you to the area where you'll 

find the Gold and Blue Keys, Artifacts of Life and Invulnerability behind 
crumbling columns, and the final two Secrets. 

After clearing the initial Bronze Key rooms of Nazi vermin, advance around the
double Gold Key doors, into the area where Heath and Type 2 Ammo reserves 
are behind columns. Use your Knife to crumble the appropriate column on each 
side to get your supplies. 

The silver door opposite leads to a corridor where there are three Gold Key
doors and an open passage on each side, and the end elevator facing you. 
Entering this corridor will prompt some SS Soldiers to come out from behind
Gold Key doors. They can be lured into the previous room to taste your Knife. 
There are also two Officers waiting in the open passages at the far end, near the 

end elevator. They, too can be stabbed, but one might go through the first or 
second Gold Key door on your right. If you follow him, you will be stuck behind
a locked door without the Key, but fear not; there is a column that will crumble

from either direction, allowing you access to the right side passage near the
end elevator. You should let him go, though, and get him later, when you have
the Gold Key. 

You'll find the Gold Key behind the second column on the left side passage, very

close to the elevator. The Blue Key is towards the end of the right side
passage, guarded by a clone. The column in the corner, just past the Blue Key,
crumbles, and behind it is the seventh Secret. There are three passages; Clones
are at the end of two of them, and the third is an Artifact of Displacement. 
Before exploring this Secret, however, clear the areas behind the six Gold Key
doors in the corridor. There is some Treasure, and Artifacts of Life and
Invulnerability behind crumbling columns. You won't necessarily have 
Invulnerability long enough to reach the Artifact of Displacement, and clear the 

area to which you are transferred. 

The Artifact of Displacement brings you to an area where you'll have to fight
several Clones. The eighth and last Secret is just to the right of the Artifact
of Displacement on the other side. The return trip will bring you back to the
original starting elevator, from which you can pick up any needed Health or
Ammo, and any remaining Treasure items, before making your way back to the
end elevator. You'll face the second Boss on floor 10.

Floor 10:

Exploding a large number of Suicide Clones is your first challenge on floor 10.
Go straight ahead, to the middle, where there are no exploding barrels. Using
your Machine Gun, pick a spot between the stone block and non crumbling
column. Fire repeatedly, allowing Clones to move into the bullets. Don't aim
for individual ones. Stop firing when you've hit about 4, and wait for some 
others to move to the center. When you're down to 3 or 4, shoot at the first
barrel on the right, using the elevator area for cover. One of the three exploded

barrels should be free of toxic sludge. Expect to use a lot of rounds on these 
Clones. If you use 65 or less, you've done well. More than 70 is too many.

Around the corner right, near the Health Box, you'll find the first two Secrets.

The Artifact of Invulnerability is behind a crumble column, as is the second.

Go through the silver door, and find the Bronze Key in the first room on the 
right, guarded by two Officers. At the top of the wood panelled passage, there's

a washroom, with two Guards and Two Officers in the upper stalls. You can use
your Knife to reclaim some of the Ammo lost killing the Suicide Clones. 

The Bronze Key door opens to a hall where several Officers are patrolling. They
can be lured out for stabbing, usually four in a row. Just around the corner to 

the right of the Bronze Key door is a good place from which to stab. If one of 
them hits you, though, they'll spread out, and be more aggressive, so you'll need

to use a gun. 

Clear the hall Officers before entering the hall itself, or you will have to face 

Officers from the rooms on the left from a disadvantaged position. If you must 
use a gun on the hall Officers, try to have the Bronze Key door closed before you 

shoot them, else those inside will hear you, and will come out before you want 
them to.

There are two doors on your left in the Bronze Key hall, and the Blood Key door
at far right, around the corner. Behind the two doors to the left are several 
Officers, and 4 SS Soldiers, who will remain behind. Open the second door on 
the left, and run to a spot near the Blood Key door, where you will have a good 

shooting angle for the corner. Wait for the Officers to come to you, and pick 
them off with your Machine Gun as they round the corner. If they are already 
aware of you, try to get to the same spot near the Blood Key door; don't attempt

a firefight out in the open.

You can reclaim 16 rounds by killing the 4 SS Soldiers with The Knife. There 
are two in each room, on either side of the wood block as you enter the door.
Move into their field of vision, and withdraw slightly, and let them come to you.


There is some Treasure behind the blocks, and the Blood Key in the second 
room. 

Take note that the room where you found the Bronze Key is between the two
rooms on the left. In the Bronze Key room, the Blood Key can be seen on your
left, and the Treasure on the right. I thought this was a coding error, until I
checked the distance between the left side rooms. 

Backtrack to replenish your Health and Ammo, if necessary, before advancing
through the Blood Key door, where you'll use the Artifact of Displacement to
move past the three columns behind it. 

You have a few Clones to remove in the initial hallway past the columns, before
entering the large room, where you will face Hirohito Hyoto, the second Boss, 
along with 14 Clones. There are 6 Clones that you should take out before facing
the Boss, and 2 more while fighting him. Go around the wood enclosure to your
left, and get the two who will see you, at mid and upper left. Repeat this 
procedure on the right side. Next take the two in the central wood section, on
each side below the MCS rifle. 

You'll engage Hirohito Hyoto as soon as you advance past the midpoint between
the central wooden area and the cubicles above. Use The Machine Gun initially,
until you have killed the two Clones waiting at far left and right, just above the

line where you're introduced to the Boss. Go around the left side, and when you 

hear him, retreat back to the lower left hand corner of the central wood
enclosure, and wait. Fire a few shots at him to get his attention, and retreat to

the lower right hand corner of the enclosure. Hirohito Hyoto is one of the
smarter Bosses that you'll face in Wolfenstein games, in that his movements
are unpredictable. When he's out of sight, he may go towards you, around 
behind you, or through the middle of the enclosure, very close to you. If you 
don't know where he is, wait diagonally below one of the lower corners. You
will be able to see at least part of him before he can shoot at you with either
his Chain Gun or Rocket Launcher. 

When you have him coming towards you, but he's a fair distance away, use the
opportunity to kill one, then the other Clone at far left and right. You'll finish

off the other six Clones after offing the Boss. Once you've downed the two 
Clones in the side walls, switch weapons to the MCS Mk4 for the rest of this 
section. There are a lot of Type 2 Ammo reserves on this floor, (much of it 
hidden in Secret areas), but relatively little Type 1 Ammo for The Machine Gun.

Keep all of the battle with Hirohito Hyoto in and around the central wooden
enclosure. Fire some shots, duck around the corner, and wait until the rocket
smoke passes you before getting back in his face. Circle around the wooden
encloure, and fire at him from the corners, then move to the next corner, and
repeat. His bloody corpse surrenders the Gold Key to you.

There are a lot of Health items strewn about the floor, if you take some major
hits from the Boss.

Hyoto's weakness is that it takes a moment for him to aim, and at a decent 
range for your MCS Mk4, his rockets take a while to reach you, so if you 
remain calm, he can be killed without any loss of Health to you. 

Be aware of the Ammo reserves in the corners of the room, but be wary of 
them, as well. Run quickly into the lower corner ones when the Boss is far
away from you, but don't let him trap you in there. Leave the two at upper
left and right until after you have killed the remaining 6 Clones. 

There are ten Secrets in the area where you find Hirohito Hyoto, one triple
push wall at lower right, which has a single Clone defender, and three pairs of
push walls near the other three corners, each of which cuts off a small corner
of the room perimeter. There are 140 Type 2 Ammo rounds for your MCS rifles
in each of two Secrets. Note also, the Artifact of Life on the upper side of the

central wooden area. 

You'll have to shoot through a torch to find the last secret, which will also
bring you to the elevator to the ultra secret floor, the Pac Man floor 22.

The Gold Key door at the top of the room reveals the Artifact of Displacement. 
Make sure that you are moving forward as you touch the Artifact, and continue
to move forward as it works its' mojo, otherwise you may find yourself on the
wrong side of the pillars. It's as if the two Artifact of Displacement are right

in front of you, and if you don't clear the second one, you make two jumps 
instead of one. 

Six Clones guard the Blue Key, behind the side Gold Key door. go around the left

side, quickly past the side entrance to your right, and smoke the three at the 
top of the room first. Two of the 3 in the center will probably be standing at 
attention, and will be easy pickings. 

The Blue Key opens the elevator behind the Gold Key door, directly opposite
the Blood Key door. 

This is a 15,000 point bonus floor for killing a Boss. If you're playing for 100%

Treasure, go back to the first Secrets, near the opening elevator, and retreive 

the Artifact of Invincibility, if you haven't used it already. 






  


             