BEYOND MUTANTSTEIN SPECIAL EDITION - ANNIVERSARY EDITION (2002 - 2012)
A tribute to John Bucksnort

This is the (tenth) anniversary edition of Beyond Mutantstein Special Edition, the 
tribute game to John Bucksnort released on 25 December 2002.

A decade has now passed and with SoD/Wolf3D being 20 years old, John's mods still 
remain usual favourites or -in the worst case- true referents of a very distinctive 
style of modding.

With Andy (that is, fellow wolfer Andy_Nonymous at the DieHard Wolfers Forums) working 
on releasing John's mods in SDL format, we thought it a good idea to endeavour to 
put together an anniversary edition consisting of new levels which would hopefully 
not only commemorate the ten years of the release of the original tribute set, but 
also spark some renewed interest in others to play John's contributions to the SoD/Wolf3D 
catalogue.

In spite of the various modifications that were made upon the original tribute set 
(primarily involving some minor code and graphic tweaks), this product should be 
seen, mainly, as a new set of maps to our decade-old mod. We hope you enjoy this 
tribute game to John Bucksnort! Thanks to all who have contributed!

Arielus
25 December 2012


Credits:
========
 <2002 Mod>
   * Code Mods: MCS
   * Storyline & Mutant Graphics: AReyeP
   * Co-ordination: BrotherTank & Schabbs
 <2012 Anniversary Edition>
   * SDL Mutation/Code Tweaks: Andy_Nonymous
   * Graphic Updates: Andy_Nonymous & Arielus
   * Co-ordination: Arielus
   * Maps Contributions:
     * ack
     * Adam Biser
     * AReyeP
     * Arielus
     * Bobby Bucksnort
     * Codetech84
     * Daniel 'Soulblighter' Walley
     * Dean
     * Hair Machine
     * Harry Mass Senior
     * Ipank7000
     * Lakota Bucksnort
     * Poet
     * ronwolf1705
     * Schabbs
     * serpens
     * Thomas
     * WSJ


A quick note on the mapping by Arielus:
=======================================
This 10-year anniversary consists of 19 levels involving 18 different mappers (quite 
possibly and unprecedentedly large number of different architects in a single mod?). 
Andy and I basically decided to give priority to those who worked on the first Beyond 
Mutantstein Special Edition back in 2002 (and who were still present in the scene 
or otherwise reachable), to the remaining Bucksnorts, and then to the more experienced/advanced 
mappers in the community. Hopefully the end result will have been to your satisfaction 
and, as said by someone involved in the original mod released back in 2002, something 
that John would have been proud of.


The 'hidden' level:
==================
Should fate ever lead you to level 19, below is a walkthrough provided by Poet for 
the player in need of some help:

Hints and walkthrough for Beyond Mutantstein AE, level 19, the secret level; Troll 
Borg.

Save your progress in one slot, and leave backup saved games at intervals in other 
slots, so that you can go back to different stages in the level should you get stuck 
somewhere.

Warning: Reading the walkthrough may spoil part of the challenge of solving the secret 
level.


Area 1, the southern and central section.

Leave a backup saved game at the start of the level.

A mutant will come through the door ahead to the left.
Avoid being noticed by hiding behind the golden eagle block in front of you.
The mutant will later open a pushwall for you.
When he has passed go through the door behind you to the left, take the ammo box 
by the door first.
Don't open fire against the 3 enemies ahead, the mutant outside will hear you.
Make it quickly into the corner to the right and wait for the door to close.
Then confront the enemies, the green barrels will have obstructed them sufficiently 
to give you time to wait.
Shoot them, don't spend too much time grabbing their ammo.
Open the next door, shoot the mutant and the three next enemies, pick up their ammo 
quickly and move into the next hallway.
This hallway has a row of columns on the left side. A mutant behind the columns are 
soon about to open a pushwall.
It is essential that you get here in time to PREVENT him from doing it!
Fire a shot to get his attention, but don't shoot him, you need him to open a locked 
door later!
Go through the next door.

Leave a backup saved game at this position.

In the next room, by some barrels, you see a golden eagle block. This is the pushwall 
the first mutant is about to open.
A guard is obstructing it. Get his attention but don't open fire, the mutant will 
hear you.
Get the guard to step on a mine in front of a locked (silver) door immediately to 
the north (this is quite easy to achieve).
You must have achieved this before the first mutant pushes the golden eagle block.

When he does the pushwall will move only two steps and reveal a hidden door to the 
east without blocking the locked door to the north.
(I have played this through numerous times and this trick always works.)
Go through a nearby door to the south, shoot the mutant who pushed the wall, and 
an SS coming from one of the hallways to the south.
Take the health kit and the ammo box found here.
Enter the blue section through a side door. Within there are more barrels. The innermost 
is explodable.
Shoot it off, it will trigger another explodable barrel positioned diagonally from 
it and kill a hidden deaf guard, making way for another guard.
Have this next guard go through the locked (silver) door and shoot him in the doorway 
making the door stay open.
If you do this from outside the blue room the two barrels next to the door will help 
you by being explodable too.
Next clean out the two hallways to the south. It is not necessary to clean out the 
first one with several SS but you will gain a lot of ammo from it.
Kill as many as possible by blowing up the barrels in their hallway, shoot the remaining 
ones. Find a health kit around the corner.
Then shoot the mutants in the other hallway. Go through the door at the southern 
end, shoot two more mutants to the right of you.
You are now in the opening section on the other side of the trees. Take the extra 
life powerup in the corner by the well.
Go back through the hallway and through the door revealed by the pushwall the mutant 
moved.
A new pushwall can only be moved backwards (seen from where you are coming) blocking 
the retreat.
Proceed into the blue section. Pick up the nearby supergun ammo and the chaingun.

Confront the first Ubermutant!
Fight him while running around the wall blocks, there is an ample amount of ammo 
and health kits to be found.
Finally brought down this Ubermutant will leave you the gold key.
You need it both to get out of his section, and to get into the next area, the southwestern 
section.
Locate a pushwall, behind it you find a locked (gold) door. Go through it and find 
yourself by the locked (silver) door left open by the guard you shot.
Beyond it you find two secret doors (pushwalls) that will take you back to where 
you were before.
(Neither of these two pushwalls were openable from the other side.)

Leave a backup saved game at this position.

Make it into a nearby room with a bare table at the upper end. To the left of you 
is a golden eagle.
This is the pushwall you prevented a mutant from opening earlier. Don't open it now 
but proceed through the next door.
In the next room the passage is blocked by several mines. There are some enemies 
ahead and more around the corner.
Fight them and see to it that they step on enough mines so you can get safely through.

At the other end of the room there are two locked doors behind barrels, a silver 
door to the east and a gold door to the south.
The mutant you prevented from opening a pushwall will come through the silver door. 
Shoot him in the doorway making the door stay open.
The barrel immediately in front of the gold door is explodable. Blow it off.
Then go back to the pushwall, open it and proceed.
Go through the locked (silver) door left open by the mutant, and through the locked 
(gold) door using your key.


Area 2, the southwestern section.

Leave a backup saved game at this position.

A new pushwall will block the retreat.
Entering the new section you will see the backs of quite a little army of enemies. 
Opening fire will alarm twice as many.
An impossible situation.
Ahead to the left you see two locked (silver) doors. Wait for a patrolling mutant 
to open one of them.
Now you must time it right!
Follow the mutant through the locked door without having him notice you.
Well inside the room wait for the door to close behind you before shooting the mutant. 
Make sure he does not get to open any other door before he gets killed.
Go through the locked (gold) door. Immediately to the south there is an Ubermutant 
behind some dead trees.
Ignore him at the moment and run west passed the corner.
Around the next corner you find an extra life powerup.

Leave a backup saved game at this position.

Now for the hard bit!
Ahead you see many trees. There are mines and skeletons scattered among them. The 
enemies you saw before wait around the next corner facing your way.
Rush forward towards the first pile of bones (not skeleton) then straight north towards 
the nearest bush, pass it on the left side.
Several of the enemies following you will step on mines.
Turn right by the wall ahead, continue through two health kits and shoot the enemies 
appearing to the right, get more health and ammo.
Turn quickly and kill more of the enemies following you by blowing up several barrels.

Wait for the rest by the corner and shoot them as they come.
Well done! Pick up all the ammo left by the fallen enemies, but avoid the remaining 
mines.
After this, dealing with the Ubermutant by the dead trees will seem easy.
First get into the blue room at the southwestern corner for another extra life powerup.

Then go through the door to the east and run through the super gun ammo near the 
Ubermutant. Stop for a breather behind the block south of him.
The best strategy now is to go back and enter the room where you shot the mutant 
you followed, from the north.
Then fight the Ubermutant while sliding sideways through the gold doorway.
The Ubermutant finally brought down, remove the golden eagle pushwall behind him 
and get his silver key. Then take the two nearby health kits.
Then head on north, still minding the mines, and go through a locked (silver) door 
ahead using your key.


Area 3, the northwestern section.

Leave a backup saved game at this position.

Pick up some super gun ammo immediately to the left.
Behind the purple brick wall ahead there is a patrolling guard temporarily stopped 
by a standing guard.
Make it carefully ahead to the right by the trees and the bushes.
Some mutants will shoot at you from far ahead, then several SS behind trees ahead 
to the left. You must ignore them. You cannot open fire at this moment.
Carefully let the standing guard notice you, but not the patrolling one behind him!

Backstep, and have the first guard follow you. Play safe and retreat through the 
locked (silver) door you just came through.
The trees will prevent the guard from following you here.
Try to notice the patrolling guard moving eastward.
When he disappears behind another, very short, purple brick wall, rush up to this 
wall yourself (the guard will turn north behind it).
At this point you have shelter from the mutants and the SS but not from the alarmed 
guard. So don't linger.
Notice some health kits a little away to the right of you. Make it there and wait.

The dark grey wall gives you shelter from the SS although not from the mutants, but 
they are a long way off.
From here you will see, or at least hear, the patrolling guard open a pushwall.
If he and the other guard come at you, shoot them. In any case get the super gun 
ammo to the right.
Then make it ahead through the left mine field, the right one is impossible.
Run zigzagging through the mine field. Starting by the super gun ammo you will have 
to make only one turn.
Find more health kits at the other end.
Then make it quickly through the passage in the line of trees, made open by the guard 
(who pushed the wall).
Get the ammo by another purple brick wall ahead taking as much shelter as you can 
from the mutants behind the bushes to the north.
Shoot quickly the two guards (if you have not already done so) and the mutants.
The wall will give you complete shelter from the SS.
Then bring down all the SS behind the trees, shooting them past the end of the purple 
brick wall.
Turn the wall and find two health kits by a door leading into the house.
The guards and the SS in the first two rooms are positioned behind blocking objects. 
You will not get at their ammo.
After the two first rooms go through an empty hallway and enter the next room.

Leave a backup saved game at this position.

Here you find a third pushwall of no return.
Pass through to the south after pushing it.
Ahead you see two locked doors, one silver (for which you have the key) and one bronze.

Before venturing into the next room locate an extra life powerup behind a wooden 
block structure a little to the east.
Then open the silver door, and alarm a third Ubermutant immediately to the right 
of you.
Have him follow you to into the section where you found the extra life powerup.
It is extremely unlikely that you have enough ammo to fight him.
Rush back into his room and take the second door to the left (east).
The Ubermutant will most surely follow you. But do take the time to make sure he 
does!
Shoot the guard in the next little room, and push the wall block to stop the Ubermutant, 
and ten SS (on all difficulty settings) who are now alarmed, from following you through 
the door.
Hurry through the next door. Pick up an ammo box and shoot the brown mutants coming 
at you from ahead.
Grab a nearby health kit and push another wall block sideways and run forward for 
shelter.
The Ubermutant and the ten SS will follow you through another door, down a narrow 
path filled with mines (there are a total of ten mines there).
See them take their death one by one and mind the fire from the still living ones.

The last one will get through alive and come at you through a nearby locked (bronze) 
door.
If the last one is the Ubermutant you are done for!
That is why I advised you to make sure he actually followed you back to his room 
before shooting the guard and alarming the ten SS!
Shoot the last SS in the bronze doorway. Go through it and up the narrow path picking 
up ammo and the bronze key from the Ubermutant.
Go through the other door in the Ubermutant's room (this is where the ten SS were 
waiting).
Turn a corner ahead, and don't get surprised by a mutant behind a mutant statue.

Go through a locked (bronze) door using your key.


Area 4, the northeastern section.

Leave a backup saved game at this position.

In the first room you find a box of ammo, and you will notice an extra life powerup 
in an adjoining room, behind a wooden barrel.
Go through the next door.
You enter a classically looking Wolfenstein area with long blue hallways.
The area seems very quiet. See to it that it remains so!
Locate a pushwall in the hallway section to the left, and find the extra life powerup 
behind it.
In the right wall of the long main hallway there are narrow passages leading to prison 
cells.
The first cell door is a pushwall. The path to this cell is obstructed by four mines.

Guards are hiding in three of the other passages. If you want to fight them now, 
use your knife to avoid being heard by anyone.
The knife is a silent weapon in this secret level.
Or if you immediately want to fight the enemies in the big room behind the first 
door to the right, make sure the door closes behind you before opening fire.
At the far end the main hallway continues south then west where the passage further 
is blocked by three green barrels.
Mutants are moving around here, deal with them later!
At the start of the main hallway take the second hallway to the left.
Turn right and move ahead into a long narrow corridor.
South of this corridor is a hallway where four patrolling brown mutants are temporarily 
stopped by four SS.
Four small passages let you alarm the SS one by one, make sure they start following 
you through the small passages! And make sure the patrolling mutants don't notice 
you, and knife down the four SS one by one.
At a corner by the entrance to the narrow corridor you may notice the patrolling 
brown mutants turn south and continue into the passage with mines, where they will 
be killed one by one.
The last one will open the pushwall before stepping on the last mine.
Now deal with the three before mentioned guards (if you have not already done so).

And deal with the mutants at the end of the main hallway so they won't be there when 
you make it past the barrels.
You will also find a box of ammo here.
Clean out the big room (if you have not already done so) and find a super gun and 
ammo behind a pushwall in that room, you will notice it behind another wooden barrel.

Then follow the path of the four dead brown mutants and enter the first cell.
Pushwalls will let you into the next four cells. In the last one of these a mutant 
is waiting. Shoot him before he shoots you.
The next pushwall lets you into the main hallway again, beyond the green barrels.

Go through the door ahead.


Area 5, the southeastern section.

Leave a backup saved game at this position.

Pass by a last pushwall of no return. Go through the next door which leads to a big 
outdoor area.
The moment you step out into the open you will be noticed by three Ubermutants at 
different distances from you.
Fight them all! And fight the mutants and SS hiding behind some of the blue skull 
wall blocks.
Be constantly on the move! There is an ample ammount of ammo and health kits scattered 
about. Make sure you run through them.
You only have to kill one of the Ubermutants to get the elevator key. But bring them 
down, all three of them!
When everything has quieted down push the blue skull wall block next to the grey 
stone wall, near a dead tree, and go through the door behind it.
It leads to the opening area.
You'll see the elevator ahead to the left.
Find an extra life powerup immediately to your left.
Open the elevator door using your latest acquired key. Shoot the last brown mutant 
in the elevator itself.
Continue to level 18.


Poet.