 Tribesmen: These guys come in a constant, just use any weapon to dispatch one, and 
the slingshot or wumpa gun for a group.
 Monkey: These are also in a constant, simply pick them off with low fire weapons, 
and save the Fruit fro more useful methods.
 Lackey: Pinstripe trains these guys to be: big, tough, and to use a machine gun, 
if your lucky, they might drop the slingshot if you don't already have one.
 Snapping Plant: These things are annoying, and there are lots of them! tougher than 
tribesmen, only use the slingshot or wumpa gun to defeat them.
 Hover Bot: Even more dangerous than the last 4 enemies, these things are silent, 
and they won't stop until your defeated! using anything brutal and fast on them is 
a good idea. (they also look like flying hamburgers with spikes on them, makes you 
wonder huh?)
 Lab Assistant: These Guys have the ability to shoot trails of painfully slow lightning 
from their hands, just dodge the lightning, and shoot them with the wumpa gun. they 
take more hits to defeat than it looks.
 Boulder: These things roll slowly towards you, wanting to crush you slowly, just 
run and they can't hurt you, also they can't be killed, so don't waste your time 
shooting them.
 Papu Papu: We think Papu Papu means: "Pass me that dish again, mate!" But he is 
no push over... Okay he is, simply using the slingshot is enough, he isn't a really 
hard boss (well he is boss 1)
 Ripper Roo: This guy has seen way too many appointments with the evolvo ray, simply 
strafe from his attacks, and hit him hard, he is one of the only bosses to be fough 
more than once.
 Koala Kong: Kong is a mixture of the last 2 bosses, Ripper Roo's claw attack, and 
Papu's boulder attack. Simply strafe and fire, those are the keys to victor over 
this guy.
 Pinstripe Potoroo: This guy uses his tommy Gun so much, it's like asecond language 
to him, he is basically an overpowered Ripper Roo, but he has less health than Roo. 
He also appears more than once.
  Nitrus Brio: He is the hardest boss in the game for 2 reasons: 1, He has a really 
nasty attack to match Pinstripe's. 2, He has 2 forms, each with the same attack power 
but with different speeds! Good thing you only face him once!
 Dr. Neo Cortex: He is fed up with Bandicoots, so he's changed his ray gun to Bandisizzle! 
He shoots constant beams of doom on the ground, just dodge them, and return fire 
with the wumpa gun.
 Tawna: She should be an enemy on a count of how much you go through to save her! 
She basically stands there and looks pretty, but if you ask me, She should be allowed 
to at least have defeat animations!
 Aku Aku: He likes to aid crash by giving him spiritual versions of himself to aid 
crash on his journey. regular aku's give crash 4% health, silver give crash 10%, 
and gold give 25% health.
 Crash Bandicoot: Our Hero, he has to do so much on his journey, to bad all it's 
for is to save his girlfriend Tawna. You play as crash, and use many (actually only 
4) weapons to help save her from Doctor Cortex's Castle.
