 

Story:

NOTE: If you don't like reading good plots for games than either skip this part or 
skip down to the summarized story at the bottom of this story.
 	The year is 1945; World War II is at its peak. The Allies seem to have the upper 
hand in the Pacific as well as the European theater. Adolf Hitler's once powerful 
empire is crumbling around him, the Axis powers are retreating, and American scientists 
are on the brink of inventing the atom bomb. It looks like all is lost for ever-resourceful 
Third Reich. However the Nazis have one last resort. their plan is sheer evil, to 
say the least, and may spell doom for the (over?) confident Allies.
But the Allies, having learned something about this plot, are making every effort 
to stop the Germans once in for all in a stroke of strategic genius dubbed, Projekt: 
Vertilgung.

	 Slowly and stealthily, Army Ranger Captain B.J. Blazkowicz creeps down the silent 
and empty hall. The walls have the smell of death, and he doesn't know if it's just 
him or if someone's watching him. He rounds the end of the corridor when he spots 
a sudden movement in the corner of his eye. With lightning reflexes he whirls to 
his left and cocks the hammer of his P-08 Luger.
	TCLIK!
A rat scurries by. Sighing heavily with relief, and feeling a bit sheepish, he lowers 
his gun.
	"Damn these halls…" he mutters, turning back to continue down the musty halls. The 
eerie silence was beginning to play with his nerves. It feels as if the entire compound 
is taunting him, especially the shadows on its filthy walls.
	"HALTE!!"
All at once, one particular shadow suddenly jumps out at B.J. in the form of a German 
infantryman, armed with a Walther P-38. As quickly as he appeared, the Nazi soldier 
is crumpling to the floor following two sequential gunshots. B.J. flinches as the 
sounds bounce off the narrow walls all the way down the corridor and throughout the 
rest of the bunker. More guards would be coming momentarily.
	"Piece of SHIT!" the captain yells, kicking the dead soldier in the ribs. He begins 
to continue on his way when an overwhelming sense of dread runs up his spine, and 
chills his blood to ice. As he slowly turns around, he comes face to face with a 
Luger.
	BKAMMmmmmmmm……..
	B.J. sits up, covered in cold sweat. It takes him about ten seconds to realize he’s 
in his Army quarters. Shaking, he gets out of bed and rushes to the sink to dowse 
his face with cold water.
	“Damn…” he coughs.
It's been six months since he retrieved the Spear of Destiny from the Nazis' clutches. 
Six months since that grizzly battle with the Angel of Death. Six months still recovering 
from the injuries. The wounds had healed, but the scars remained, physical and mental. 
Ever since the terrifying event his sleep has been plagued with nightmares about 
the whole ordeal. Partly the horrors of combat; visions of people dying at his hands. 
Standard dreams following combat. Comes with the territory. But the strange sounds 
in the background amidst the gunfire and screams, and the disturbing, unnatural aura 
the reenactments have to them….almost as if he were actually re-killing them, like 
in some sort of ethereal dead zone. It always ends the same, though; a bullet through 
the right eye, then utter blackness. No pain. No feeling at all.
“…aww, shit…” he groaned, looking at his clock. It was three a.m., at least three 
more hours until morning. Regardless, his shaking hands made him think twice about 
going back to sleep, and he stared at the ceiling in bed the rest of the night, trying 
to recall the horrid sounds in his dream.

	The next day, B.J. receives a notice that he should report to General Eisenhower's 
office ASAP. He was exactly on time, as always.
	"Sit down, Mr. Blazkowicz." the gruff general said as he gestured to a seat by his 
desk, "I'll get straight to the point. I've called you here to help the Allies execute 
Projekt: Vertilgung. A few months ago our spy planes spotted a large amassing of 
German troops and munitions in a remote area in West Germany. Uncle Sam wanted like 
to know what the bastards were up to, so we sent a few men in disguised as SS officers. 
After some careful investigation, we found a most disturbing answer: Dr. Artz Schabbs, 
Germany's best genetic engineer and medical scientist. He’s still kicking, B.J., 
and he’s just as deranged as ever. Can’t imagine why, after all the bullets you pumped 
into him! Now, though we have inadmissible proof that he is alive, we have no information 
on his plans. That's where you come in, B.J. One of our informants in Castle Wolfenstein 
reported a group of high-ranking officers carrying some very suspicious cargo. He 
said it appeared the shipments, whatever they may be, were being contained in very 
low temperatures, which can’t mean anything good if they’re for the good doctor’s 
lab. They were stored in a heavily guarded safe in one of the deeper floors of the 
castle. Unfortunately, the informant was unable to go any further without drawing 
unwanted attention to himself. If and when you find the plans, you are to report 
to your Allied contacts and tell them exactly what you found. With Dr. Schabbs working 
with the Nazis, I know this is no ordinary situation. We chose you because you are 
the best, B.J., and for this mission we’re asking that you fully live up to your 
reputation. Any questions?"

***

	"Jump time is in less than a minute." reminded the pilot from the cockpit of this 
tiny, inconspicuous plane. 
	"Gotcha," B.J. told him. Strapping on his parachute he readied to jump. He was dressed 
in an all black jumpsuit. Then the pilot yelled over the roar of the engine,
	"OK go ahead." He leaped from the plane. He knew exactly when to pull his chute. 
He had been a paratrooper before being recriuted for the O.S.A. It was deep in the 
night so he didn't worry about anyone spotting him. What he did worry about was landing 
in a tree or some other obstacle. Then he saw it. A huge, familiar castle loomed 
ahead of him. He landed with a thud. He pulled off his parachute and ran behind a 
tree. He had heard some footsteps. All they had given him was a knife. He saw a guard 
walking. He was only standard infantry, thank God. It could have been fatal to try 
yo take on a machine-gun toting S.S. with merely a knife. It was obvious he'd heard 
something. When the guard's back was in full view B.J. jumped out, grabbed the guard 
around the throat and slid the knife into his lower back. He gurgled for a moment 
then lost conciousness and slowly slid down. "Still got it!" said B.J. He picked 
up the guard's pistol. It was a P-08 German Luger. He checked the clip. It had 8 
rounds. Walking around the installation he found a small room behind many vines and 
a row of white pillars. Stealthily B.J. slid between the pillars. Here we go!

***

	Meanwhile, deep in a Nazi retreat bunker, a tense meeting is taking place. Present 
at this meeting are a few of the most powerful people in Nazi Germany. Peyera Grosse 
is present. He is the father of Hans, Grettle, and Trans. He's a very influential 
figure of the Third Reich. With his high power gatling gun few people in the land 
could take him on and live to tell about it! Hermann Goering is another of the feared 
members of the Nazi empire. Once very powerful and very popular leader of the German 
Luftwaffel. Now he is hunted like an animal.  Perhaps one of the most wanted men 
on the earth, the Heinrich Himmler, sits at the head of the table with a face as 
grim as you will ever see.  The first one to speak is Himmler, 
	"Welcome fellow Nazis,"he rasps."Our Fuhrer has been murdered by that American Swine, 
Blascowicz! The Third Reich is crumbling and we no longer hold France. My top scientist 
Dr. Artz Schabbs has invented a formula that will bring hitler back from the grave. 
Perhaps you remember his failed experiments in the past. In Operation Iron Fist he 
was nearly K.I.A. Fortunately he was saved in time. He suffered extensive injuries 
but is back and in good health. His mutants were mindless creatures that destroyed 
everone and everything in sight. They only obeyed him. His latest formula corrects 
that. They are no longer bloodthirsty animals. On the contrary! They are skilled 
soldiers ready for war! He has nearly perfected this formula. When finish we will 
retrieve der Fuhrer's corpse and inject this concoction into his all but dried veins. 
Our hopes is that he will be in full health and intelligence and bring us out of 
our nearing defeat. Then for procautionary reasons we will try out Dr. Schabbs secret 
project, cloning. Yes you heard me cloning we will make 2 more copies of der Fuhrer 
and freeze them in case everthing goes horribly wrong. Schabbs stumbled upon this 
formula while searching for a way to perfect his creatures. This is our last chance 
so keep a good watch for Allied spies. The Swines are everywhere!" 
	"Grosse!" commanded Himmler. 
	"Yes sir?" Peyera Grosse stood up in all his awe. 
	"You take Castle Wolfenstein!" Himmler shouted. "Schabbs will be at his labs in 
Castle Hell Hammer. We are planning on housing der Fuhrer in an adjacent lab accessed 
by underground tunnels. Goering, you will be stationed at Castle Feiglingloch. I 
will reside here for now under close security. That dog Blazcowicz will never reach 
me. If he does, then he has a surprise waiting for him!  They stood up and saluted 
the ever chilling salute: "HEIL HITLER!"

Summarized Story:

B.J. must foil another plot to destroy the world attempted by Dr. Schabbs by infiltrating 
yet another system of castles and things of that nature. 



Interaction

There are some things in Projekt Vertilgung that requires some extraordinary (for 
Wolfenstein anyways) action. This section teaches you about each of them and what 
to do when you encounter them.

1. Shattering Glass
 When you encounter a pane of glass like this in Projekt Vertilgung it can be shot 
down. Careful when stepping over this as you will probably cut yourself. It can hurt 
too! Takes away up to 15% of your health.

2. Falling Pillars
 Obviously everything decays right? Well these castles the Nazis have inhabited are 
decaying as well. Some of the stone pillars are starting to weaken and can be shot 
and knocked down giving way to secrets or treasure!

3. Stealth
Some levels in the game hold stealth as a very important factor. The thin, acoustic 
walls of these levels make it very easy for many guards to hear you at one shot so 
your best bet is to pick up a Sten SMG or Sniper Rifle quick! The knife is silent 
as well but don't get stuck at that weapon!
Hint: Save before entering each level. 

Another little tip is that doors may jam. If you shoot a doorside with a rocket the 
explosion will ruin the mechanics and leave the door ajar. Useful for waiting for 
guards to step in the door without fear of it shutting on you.

Getting Started:


1. Unzip straight onto your C: drive or whatever your hard drive is. (You don't need 
to make a new folder).
2. Run PV.exe
3. To start a new game select "New Game". Pick difficulty setting. There ya go. Go 
toast some Nazis!

Controls(for keyboard) 


Fire: Ctrl key
Move: Arrow keys
Run: Hold right shift + arrow keys
Strafe: Alt + arrow keys 
Show/hide pointer: X key
Toggle lighting effects on and off: F key*

*= "Lighting effects" are like when you step under a light and it glows yellow like 
you're really under a light. James wanted this but some people (including myself) 
think it's annoying so we decided to allow you to switch it on and off.

 

The Mission:

Levels 1 - 10: Infiltrate Wolfenstein
In this episode your mission begins. Upon arrival at Castle Wolfenstein you are to 
work your way to the lower reaches of the castle where you will most likely find 
the plans that will lead the Allied Forces to Schabbs and his Ongoing task to ressurect 
Hitler.

Level 11: Mine #1
This is the Nazi mine that connects Wolfenstein to Castle Deuschteufel.

Levels 12 - 20: Operation: Ressurection
After retrieving the maps we find that Schabbs plan is working. He is ready to begin 
work on his enchanced mutants. Get in there and take out Schabbs before he has a 
chance to begin manufacturing undead. If you get there in time perhaps you will be 
able to destroy his Hitler creation as well.

Level 21: Mine #2
These abandoned treasure mines aren't exactly abandoned. Eliminate all enemy resistance 
and gain entry to Castle Eintracht.

Levels 22 - 36: Die Mutant Clone Die!
Upon eliminating Schabbs and the Hitler Mutant you find some very surprising news. 
While researching a way to ressurect Hitler Schabbs stumbled upon a method for cloning. 
You found that he has created a clone of Hitler in case something like this happened. 
It's location was included in a letter as well. Your mission is to destroy the Hitler 
clone and any evidence that might exist.

Level 37: Mine #3
The final mine leading you to Castle Artzenheint where Heinrich Himmler is hiding. 
Be prepared for very tough resistance.

Levels 37 - 49: Assasinate the Heinrich
Cut off the head and the body goes with it. If you take out the maniacal head of 
the S.S. then you will have cut off the Third Reich's last trand of hope. Be careful. 
This area is very heavily guarded. If you don't use stealth you will find yourself 
dead.

Level 49: Waste Sewers
What happens to Nazi crap? Find out here in these waste sewers. The guards are on 
to you and have prepared dozens of ambushes and secret traps. This is your toughest 
floor yet but the reward is well worth the push. If you can slip through here victory 
is in your grasp. Hint: I would use stealth and search for secrets a LOT in here.



Levels 50 - 60: Secret levels
Try to find them all!! 

Level ?: Super Secret Level
If you find this treasure filled super-level you will definetly have a high score




Items

Weapons and Ammo:

Here are the weapons found in the game. 


  Combat Knife
Basically this is a last resort. It can be used to spare ammo. Be careful when trying.


  Walther P-38 (uses 9mm rounds)
This was the German standard pistol in WW2(I know it wasn't in use while the U.S. 
was in the war but I like it better!). This is the weapon you start the game with.


   MP-40 (uses 9mm rounds)
A very reliable weapon, This sub-machinegun was used throughout the war. The deadly 
S.S. utilize it so be careful.

   German Anti-aircraft Mini-gun (uses 50 cal. rounds) 
This is the ultimate in WW2 weaponry. Developed by the Germans it was rarely used 
in combat since it tended to jam frequently.*

  Silenced Sten Gun (uses rifle rounds)
This was mainly used by the British in WW2 but the Germans, seeing its potential 
made use of it for themselves.* Use this clever weapon to take out emnemies quickly 
and quietly.

  Twin Miniguns (uses 50 cal. rounds)
This is the ultimate kill-everything-in-sight weapon. Will bring even bosses down 
twice as fast as the regular chaingun. Very rare. 

  Sniper Rifle (uses rifle rounds)
This is an ideal weapon for stealth. Its long reloading time makes it cumbersome 
in large battles. Its scope makes for dead-eye accuracy.

  Panzerfaust rocket launcher (uses rockets)
German anti-tank weapon would do untold damage to large groups of people. Careful 
not to get to close as you don't want to get caught in the explosion. Ouch!

  9mm ammo clip
This ammo fits only the Walther (pistol) and the MP-40 (machine gun). Found nearly 
everywhere. You just have to look hard enough. If you get it off a fallen man you 
get 4 bullets. If you get it off the ground(unused) you get 8 bullets.

  9mm ammo crate
This is a crate filled with 9mm bullets. 25 bullets to be exact. These are pretty 
rare as they are mainly in ammo caches and secret areas.

  Rifle ammo
This powerful ammo is used in the sniper rifle and the STEN smg. Found often once 
you have the sniper rifle and/or the STEN. Gives you 8 rounds.

  Rifle ammo crate
This is the rifle ammo in 25 rounds form. Like I said it gives you 25 rifle rounds 
to blow Nazis away with. 

  50 Caliber Ammo box
This ammo works only with the Miniguns. It has a very powerful shot and is usually 
used on aircraft and anti-tank/aircraft machine guns. Holds 8 rounds. 

  50 Caliber Ammo Crate
Same as above only with 25 rounds inside.

  Panzerfaust rocket
Powerful shells that work with only the Panzerfaust. Pretty rare and they are pretty 
heavy so you can only carry a limited supply.

   Rocket Crate:
This crate filled with rockets. Gives you 10 rockets in all.



* Statements made up


Pickups:


Health Items: 
Self - explanatory

  Nazi dope.
The scientific name is methanfedamine but nonetheless the Nazis developed this lethal 
concoction in hopes of keeping soldiers stimulated and at their best. Gives you a 
2% boost whether or not you have 100% already. Ironic.
(Please, no emails about how politically incorrect this is ;)


  Dog Food.
Self explanatory. It's dog food. Increases life by 2%. Usually found in kennel areas.


  Steak Dinner
Last time I ate a a big steak dinner I felt pretty good. So why shouldn't B.J.? Increases 
health by 10%. Yummy! Found in dining and kitchen areas mostly.

  Med-kit
German first-aid kits. Really good for you! Increases health by 25%.  Found in a 
lot of secret areas.

  Super Med-kit
Grants you 200% health. Has everything you need to patch B.J. right up!

 Bandolier
This increases your ammo capacity.


Treasure:
These are important, ancient artefacts discovered(or stolen) by the Germans.


This is treasure stolen from people(usually Jews)by the Germans and stored in the 
castles. They go in order from least point worth to greatest point worth.

 Cross
These are found frequently and are not worth very much.

  Chalace
Found pretty often. These cups are pure gold and were once drank from by Austrian 
royalty.

  Treasure Chest
These babies are pretty rare. Good money(and points).

  Mined Gold
This valuable pile of metal is mainly found in the mine areas of the castle. It is 
worth a lot of $$$ and a lot of points (About as much as the crown). The Nazis were 
mining for gold and other valuables underground. Rob their empire of it's newlyfound 
riches and line your own wallet at the same time  

 Crown: Stolen from the abandoned castles themselves, this piece of treasure is very 
worthwhile. You will not find this very often!
 
 Life, 1up, whatever you want to call it
This awesome and very rare pick-up gives you 100% health, 1 life, and 25 
bullets.

 God Mode Artefact
This pickup is EXTREMELY rare. Good luck finding one. This timed item gives you invincibility 
for a short period of time. Treasured by many, I think you'll be happy when you find 
this!

Keys:
For unlocking locked doors.

 
Silver Key: A key for opening some locked doors.

 
Gold Key: Another key for opening locked doors.

 
Elevator Key: This key is used for umm.. opening locked elevators. 

 
Rusty key: This key is usually a bonus key for unlocking very secret areas that have 
been unused for a while.  Hint: Mostly used for finding secret elevators.


 
Skeleton Key: This key will open any locked door. It doesn't matter if you have no 
keys whatsoever. Kool eh?

Enemies

Small Enemies

  German Shepard K-9
The dog has always been considered man's best friend. Well this puppy is definetly 
not your friend! He is basically a waste of ammo so use a knife. (It takes 1 or 2 
stabs) Nonetheless don't let the dog get too many bites out of you. It'll start hurting!


 Standard Whermacht Soldier:
This is the backbone of the German Army. Though not trained as well as the SS, SA, 
or the officers they are a force to be reckoned with i.e. Don't get ambushed from 
behind!

 SS Elite Guard:
This is the elite of the Third Reich. Yes they are slow. Whatever they lack in speed 
however they make up for in sheer brute. They also tend to guard in multiples. So 
tread softly and carry a big Sten SMG!

 Nazi Officer:
These high ranking officers are some of the best soldiers around. They have excellent 
stamina which allows them to move very quickly and dodge your bullets. They also 
have a fast trigger finger so WATCH OUT! As with the S.S. the officers seem to stick 
together. Get a Silenced weapon FAST!

  SA Stormtrooper
Once the personal troops for the Nazis, they were disbanded in a display of Nazi 
brutality known as "The Night of Long Knives." Some of the better SA (short for the 
german Sturm Abteilung or, stormtroopers) were allowed to keep their positions. There 
is only a small handful of these elites so they are a well-trained and ready to put 
a bullet between your eyes. They carry a Walther P-38... and a loathing for Americans.



Bosses

 Peyera Grosse:
The father of the legendary Hans and Gretel Grosse is no less of a formidable enemy. 
He has become imbittered by B.J.'s murdering of his children. 

 Dr. Artz Schabbs:
This is a perfect example of a good mind "gone bad." The Nazis use his great genuis 
for conducting their hideous tests, experiments and bio-operations. He has and idea 
for a way to ressurect their recently deceised Fuhrer.

  Hitler Mutant:
This is the undead version of Adolf Hitler. There is only one of him as far as we 
know but there may be more. So look both ways before turning a corner!

 Heinrich Himmler
The dreaded leader of the dreaded S.S. This man is nearly as evil as the evil dictator 
of Germany himself! Every Jew and American will consider you a great hero for this 
if you take him out. As the financer of the whole operation, his death will bring 
the whole operation to its knees.

Cheats

In order to defer casual cheaters we have removed the debug keys. The only cheats 
left are the in game codes. There is one catch however: If you use cheats you will 
not be able to save. :P That's what you get cheaters!! just kidding. We will release 
the in-game codes later >:)
 
Tools Used in Production

Tools used by Zach:

Flo-Edit by Florian Stohr: Graphics, sound replacements, and maps.
Wolf-edit by Bill Kirby: Graphics replacements.
MS Paint (copyright Microsoft): Graphics modifications.
MGI Photosuite 4 (copyright MGI): Graphics modifications.

Tools used by James:

Flo-Edit by Florian Stohr:
Borland C++
Wolfenstein 3D Source Code:

Tools used by Will:

Not reported


Thanks to

James Ingham: For doing the coding work and being da coolest partner ever!
B.J. Rowan (http://www.wolf3dbunker.com) for: Project: Totengraeber graphics
Tristan van Putten (http://www.wolfenstein3d.co.uk) for: The Final Solution graphics 
and source code help.
Ben Blaufarb for: Operation: Panzerschiff graphics. 
AReyeP (pronounced ARE-EYE-PEA)(www.areyep.com) for: WolfenDoom and Spear: Ressurection 
 graphics. 
Nayt Smith for: Beyond Wolfenstein 2: Special Edition graphics.
Brian Lowe (see Beta Testers for URL) for: Helping by getting the word out.
Florian Stohr (http://www.wolfnode.de) for: Creating the best Wolf3d editing tool 
ever!!!! (can't wait for 2.0)
Leo Bourbeau for: Supplying Silenced STEN Gun sound.
MCS Amsterdam (http://www.areyep.com) for: Source code help and some sounds.
Michael MacDonald for: Storyline editing.
And of course, id Software (http://www.idsoftware.com) for: Creating Wolfenstein 
3D and releasing its source code therefore allowing this and other add-ons and TCs 
to emerge. 
Paal Olstad for: Source Code tutorials.
Chad Allard for:
Patrick Gray for:
Chaos Software (http://www.chaos-software.org) for:
Kuki for:
Chris Kiel for:


BETA testers:

Wayne Dickinson
Patrick Gray
Brian Lowe
Chad Allard
Tristan van Putten


Contact:

You can contact Zach at WolfenDude87 (at) aol.com
or at: Grindmachine2000 (at) yahoo.com

You can contact James at: webmaster (at) wolf3dgalaxy.zzn.com

You can contact Will at: gbruso (at) together.net

You can learn more about Projekt Vertilgung at the PV website, http://www.geocities.com/grindmachine2000


Look out for future projects from Verdammt Software including:  

Note:
I realize that of you are reading this you are either very bored (does this game 
suck that bad?) or you like reading manuals (if so you're not alone!). 


Legal Crap:

	Before you use any graphics from Projekt: Vertilgung, let me know exactly what you 
are planning to use before you do since some are borrowed and I don't want you to 
assume that they are mine. Thank you.

One more thing: 
Here's a little reward for those of you who read this (for those who don't, obviously 
it won't matter.) In the 6th level you might think that you're lost and going around 
in circles. You're (probably) wrong. It's designed in the Deja Vu style that Areyep 
made famous. Quite a piece of work eh? (Unless your uncanny sense of direction leads 
you to the right way <cough!> cheater <cough!>)


