Wolfen Fatal FuhreryA Wolfenstein 3D Adventure by JMC------------------------------------Mission BriefingB.J., it's good to see you back on your feet and recovering from your last mission. According to your report you sustained 27 bullet wounds, 12 dog bites and had a meat cleaver embedded in your shoulder. How the heck did you manage that? Anyway, we have a new mission for you. The Fuhrer has built a new underground fortress near Berchtesgaden Germany named The Wolfen Den. The primary purpose of this complex is to develop yet another one his twisted experiments. This time it's an Uber Clone Army modeled after none other than the notorious Hans Grosse. It's unknown exactly how many clones you'll encounter, we estimate between 20 to 30 have been created so far. We can't have a whole army of those brutes attacking us on the battlefield, it would be a disaster for us! We need you to sneak in and put an end to this nightmare. This operation is code named: Wolfen Fatal Fuhrery, Good Luck!General William MacModding------------------------------------Wolfen Fatal Fuhrery OriginalThis is my original previously unreleased First Encounter scenario from 1996. This version is playable in Wolfenstein 3D 3rd Encounter or the commercial version. You start off with the chaingun and a backpack so it's pretty easy. Try playing on one of the harder modes and avoid using the chaingun for more of a challenge. It includes four fun levels and a fatal ending that just might enrage you into a keyboard smashing fury. Sorry about that... Enjoy. Wolfen Fatal Fuhrery Special EditionThis is the 2021 update of my 1996 First Encounter scenario. This version is also playable in Wolfenstein 3D 3rd Encounter or the commercial version. Difficulty is moderate so play on one of the harder modes. Chainguns and backpacks have been removed to increase the challenge. It includes improved versions of the original four levels, plus three new ones. It also has two possible endings, will yours lead you to freedom and fortune or will it prove fatal and leave you enraged in fury? Enjoy.System Requirements and CompatibilityThese scenarios were tested on a Power Mac 6500 with Mac OS 8.1 but should work fine with System 7 through Mac OS 8.6. There's an incompatibility with Mac G3 and G4 processors and possibly Mac OS 9 that causes the game to freeze. Too many enemies moving through doorways seems to be the problem. It's possible to fix the problem by removing doors and replacing standard doors with locking doors but that ruins all the fun.InstallationPlace the scenario files in your Wolfenstein 3D "Levels" folder. Start the program, pick "Wolfen Fatal Fuhrery" from the list of scenarios. Frag Nazis.TipsSome of the secret doors can be found by looking for piles of bones, water puddles or barrels near walls. There just might be a secret nearby. Also keep an eye out for moss covered walls that look out of place.The 1996 scenario includes too many Hans Grosse clones, if they are able to chase you then blow them away. The ones that are locked behind barriers don't need to be eliminated. In fact you'll run out of ammo trying. You could always use a cheat for more ammo though. The 2021 version fixes this problem.CheatsType these cheat codes anytime while playing to activate.APPLEIIGS - Shows secret doors in map modeBURGER - Gives all weapons and full ammunitionIDDQD - Gives invincibility / Turns off LEDOUXLEDOUX - Gives invincibility and both keysMCCALL - Jumps to next levelSEGER - Gives both keysWOWZERS - Gives full ammunitionXUSCNIELPPA - Gives invincibility and full ammunition-------------------------------------------------------25 Years Later...Thanks for downloading my Wolfenstein 3D scenario. I originally created Wolfen Fatal Fuhrery in 1996, about 25 years ago. Back then I had just purchased my first computer, a Power Mac 8100 and spent countless hours checking out new games, programs and graphics software with it. WolfEdit, the Wolfenstein 3D level editor, was one of those programs. I probably spent one or two weeks playing around with WolfEdit creating my scenario, and then moved on to something else of interest. I remember playing a few of Laz Rojas' scenarios but wasn't aware of the scenario making scene at the time so mine never got released. Somehow that scenario safely made the journey from 1996 on a noisy SCSI hard drive, Iomega Zip Drive, dodgy quality CD-ROM and finally a high quality Taiyo Yuden DVD disc. And now in 2021 I was able to re-edit the file in WolfEdit and finally release it.It's amazing that there would still be an interest in Mac Wolfenstein 3D 25 years later. The PC Wolfenstein 3D modding community has been keeping those old scenarios alive with projects such as MacenWolf and ECWolf which port them to modern platforms. And even more forgotten scenarios are being added thanks to the efforts of people like Dermuda, a Mac scenario creator from the 90's. If you have a collection of scenarios, please check out Dermuda's post on the Macintosh Garden website. He's been organizing a massive collection that will eventually be released. Submissions of new and old scenarios are always welcome.macintoshgarden.org/forum/searching-mac-wolfenstein-3d-scenariosI'm guessing there will be more Wolfenstein 3D surprises in the future. Get Psyched!JMCjdmck002@gmail.commacintoshgarden.org/users/jmcMade on a Mac