I called Operation Ravage "the big one", but that doesn't make what's coming up any less unique, for Wolfen Fatal Führery is one of these rare Mac mods that have seem modern day development! Created by JMC all the way back in 1996, it was never released back in the day as the author was not aware of the existence of the Mac Modding scene. Yet somehow, the scenario survived the journey through multiple data storage media, and since Mac Wolfenstein is seeing a bit of a resurgence in interest these days, he decided to refurbish and release it in the Year of our Lord 2021. The original 1996 version was a First Encounter mapset with four proper maps and one fake-out; the 2021 Special Edition revamps these and adds another 3+1 on top of that. 

Story: you're sent to an underground fortress called The Wolfen Den where an experimental army of Hans Grosse clones is being developed. We absolutely can't have that, but your road to victory won't be easy, as Wolfen Fatal Führery pushes First Encounter limitations to their seams, providing some of the most complex, interesting maps ever made for that version of Wolf3D, full of intriguingly designed and aesthetically pleasing places, challenges and surprises. While the original version gives you a chaingun right away and puts you against admittedly too many Hans clones at times, the SE one balances things out while expanding the existing maps (secret pushwalls are now used to much greater effect, for example) and still retaining trademark features like crossfires from numerous enemies hidden behind static objects. And even though the number of Hans clones has been drastically reduced, you still end up facing a respectable quantity. Lastly, be careful, for this mod can end in two ways - either in your triumphant march for treasure, or in BLOODY MURDER, only a thin line separating sweet victory from bitter defeat.

Note: even though the mapsets work within the limitations of First Encounter, they are distributed as Third Encounter scenario files, so I have ported them as such. This means, among other small differences, that enemies cannot open key-locked doors, so take this under consideration while playing.

===CREDITS===
JMC, who provides his e-mail address as jdmck002 (at) gmail (dot) com. I'm taking special care to ensure this one can't be read by stupid bots, because in contrast with all the other e-mails given in these posts, this one is almost certainly in current use. 