Blake and the Spear
By Joe M

Story:
After Blake's final year at university he heard about a spear that was stolen
by Dr Goldfire.The spear which belonged to a museum in South Wales had been
stolen by Dr Goldfire's army.If it is not retrieved then Dr Goldfire will be
able to rule the universe.Blake Stone it is up to you to retrieve that spear
and kill Dr Goldfire's creations.


Information

Well as you know I have managed to grabs loads of images and sounds from the
original Blake Stone.I used a program called Extendable Wad Editor and
I selected the Blake Stone palette and extracted the graphics I needed.
I converted them to the Wolf3d palette and inserted them into the SOD vswap.
Floedit was used to extract the sounds.I renamed the Blake Stone vswap to
vswap.wl6.The graphics were always way off.

The knife was replaced with that auto charge pistol
The pistol was replaced by the blaster I got from Blake Wolf
The same went with the machine gun replaced by the assualt rifle
The same went with the huge machine gun replaced by the plasma discharge unit

I also borrowed content from Blake Wolf by Andy Nonymous and Area 51 by Luke
Strauman.

The guard was replaced with the bio technician I borrowed from Ultimate
Wolfenstein.

I borrowed the plasma sphere from Blake Wolf.

The sentinel pictures were extracted using Extendable Wad Editor.

The mutant was replaced with Dr Goldfire.Extracted from Extendable Wad Editor.

Officer replaced with the Star Trooper.A good one.I borrowed it from the
Blake Stone vswap.

The fireball the Angel of Death throws was replaced by a blue ball that is
fired from one of the mutant's weapons.

Trans Grosse was replaced with the high genetic alien guard.
Barnacle Wilhem was replaced with the Spider Mutant.
The Ubermutant was replaced with the mech sentinel.
I left the death knight were it was.
I replaced the ghost with Dr Goldfire.This was a good one.
The angel of death replaced with an orange alien from Blake Stone.Just the
job.


Credits go to

Titus II who made Ultimate Wolfenstein
Luke Strauman who made Area 51
Andy Nonymous who made Blake Wolf
ID Software who made Wolfenstein 3-D and Spear of Destiny
Jammer Productions for making Blake Stone

Any comments or anything then email me at joe_sentinel@hotmail.com