Thanks for downloading DEATH TRAP, a Wolfenstein 3D mod by Thomas Weiling.

Since I first stumbled across my first Wolfenstein 3D mod in the summer of 2003, one of the hallowed and impossible quests for me was always WOLFENSTEIN COLLECTION. I simply could not wrap my goofy head around how to approach these levels, and was thrilled to finally complete it in 2024. The utilization of pushwalls, the odd and somewhat sparse design together with its Blake Stone soundtrack and soundscape always stood out to me as having a definite atmosphere. The hi-tech status bar also beguiled me for a while.

I decided to make my own spin on the mod, with MCS' blessing. I am more than honored that he has given me the okay to tinker with his old mod. I swapped a lot of stuff around, it has to be said, but in essence I follow the flow of the original Wolfenstein Collection in a more condensed fashion; the player does not get an actual firearm right off the bat, there are many (logical!) pushwalls to navigate through, some of which are vital to gameplay... There are quite a few doggies (tread carefully in secret levels!) and some wonderful, snarling Blake Stone melodies pounding out in the background. That's the way to do it!

12 levels are featured all in all. 2 of these are secret levels. I had a ball making these levels and wanted to bridge three mods that are quite dear to me, and now with Wolfenstein Collection deep in my Wolfen-heart it is here forged together with CHEMICAL WARFARE and PROJECT: WELTUNTERGANG in terms of graphical material. That very special period in Wolfenstein 3D modding, 2000-2002 - very tough to compete with! But I must say, I was thrilled to play these maps of mine in a totally different setting. Now go crack some Nazi skulls! Chop chop!

===CREDITS===

Graphics, sounds etc. came from the following:

Ben Blaufarb
B.J. Rowan
Gerolf
id Software & FormGen (well, duh)
Ken O'Brien
Laz Rojas
Parafriction
Ringman
Wolf Skevos-Jones
Wolf3DGuy

===MUSIC CHUNKS===

Billy Joel
Bobby Prince
Joe Abbati
Yasunori Shiono

===EDITORS USED===

ChaosEdit
MapEdit 8.4
WolfReColor