                       ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป 
                       บ  APOGEE SOFTWARE PRODUCTIONS  บ
                       ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ
                                                        
                 Copyright (c) 1990 Apogee Software Productions
ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ
              4206 Mayflower  Garland, Texas 75043  214/240-0614


                   The Games From Apogee Software Productions 
                   ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ
                   
          NOTE:  The following quotes & comments ARE REAL!  The quotes
          are extracted from thousands and thousands of letters sent
          to Scott Miller of Apogee Software.  All excerpts can be
          verified for authenticity.  Some are more incredible than I
          could ever make up!  Trust me on this. -- Scott Miller


ษอออออออออออออออออป
บ KINGDOM OF KROZ บ                                        $7.50 registration
ศอออออออออออออออออผ 
This game won a national programming contest as "Best Game in Shareware".  It 
features 25 levels of rousing action, 16-color graphics and a library of 200+
sound effects.  It's a unique combination of arcade, adventure and strategy.
This is Volume I of the original Kroz Trilogy.

QUOTES:

"Kingdom of Kroz is the best of all."             -- PC-SIG Directory Guide

"I've had this game a long time, and I still stay up late to play it."
                                                  -- Shareware Magazine
                                                     (Program of the Month)

"The most unique and fun-to-play game in shareware!"
                                                  -- Micro Star Catalog

"Four Stars!"  (Highest rating in their system!)
                                                  -- Public Brand Catalog

"From Texas author Scott Miller comes an exciting adventure game, Kingdom of
Kroz.  You can use your only weapon, a whip, to dispatch foes and break
through walls.  It's a real challenge."           -- COMPUTE!'s PC Magazine

"1989 in Review -- Best New Programs...Kingdom of Kroz..."  (Kingdom of Kroz
was one of three games listed.)                   -- PsL News, Dec. 1989

"I'm really enjoying KINGDOM OF KROZ, I hope it doesn't destroy my GPA!"
                                                  -- Greg McKinzey, OK

"My computer is held hostage as my wife whips her way to level 25!  You
really DID write an entertaining program,  my check is enclosed for the
two sequels."                                     -- John Rollinson, CA

"Thank you for creating the Kingdom of Kroz series.  They are by far some
of the most interesting and addictive games that I've ever played.  The
shareware concept is a great one.  It allowed me to try out Kroz, a game
that I probably would not have given a second thought to, because the
graphics look so simple and uncomplicated.  What the game lacks in it's
visual appeal, it more than makes up in it's richness and complexity of
play.  Kroz is a real 'thinking [person's]' game."
                                                  -- Vincent Tavedi, MD

"I would like to compliment and thank you for your game Kingdom of Kroz.  It
is truly the most enjoyable computer game I have ever used.  Over a year ago
I suffered a heart failure.  A good friend of mine made copies of over 50
diskettes and sent them to me to help during my rehabilitation.  The Kingdom
of Kroz has been my escape from my problems and depression.  When I get on my
feet financially, I intend to order the other Kroz games from you."
                                                  -- Jim Garrison, NY
(Note:  I sent Jim Garrison all of my other Kroz games at no charge!)

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself!  Kingdom of Kroz is a very addicting
substance!!  Not only am I addicted, but so are most of my friends.  Keep up
the good work."                                   -- Rev. Sandra Herrman, OK

"I would like to tell you that I have enjoyed Kingdom very much and am
totally addicted to it.  It is the best shareware game I have played."
                                                  -- Carla Brandy, CA

"Please do not make any more games like KINGDOM OF KROZ--I can't stop playing!"
                                                  -- Ronald E. Johnson, FL


                                      
ษออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
บ CAVERNS OF KROZ & DUNGEONS OF KROZ บ               $7.50 registration each
ศออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ
The two sequels to KINGDOM OF KROZ--more levels, more action, more fun.
CAVERNS OF KROZ has 40 new screens and DUNGEONS OF KROZ has 30 more.  Both
have unique goals and puzzles.  These two volumes complete the original
Kroz Trilogy.

All three original Kroz Trilogy games can be bought at once for just $20.

NOTE:  Three new Kroz volumes have finally been completed, read below for
       the Super Kroz Trilogy.



ษออออออออออออออออออออป
บ SUPER KROZ TRILOGY บ                 $7.50 per volume or $20 for all three
ศออออออออออออออออออออผ
This is the awaited sequel volumes to the extremely popular Kroz Trilogy.
The Super Kroz trilogy boasts new features galore.  Over forty new playfield
objects (like spells, traps, creatures, treasures, terrains, etc.) have been
added.  The three new Kroz games are:

   RETURN TO KROZ - Your quest for the "Crown of Kroz".
   TEMPLE OF KROZ - A death defying adventure for the "Holy Grail".
   THE FINAL CRUSADE OF KROZ - Will you discover the great mystery of Kroz?

They all have 16-color graphics (yes, 16 colors!) and a tremendous sound
effects library.  In each game you must navigate through dangerous chambers,
solving puzzles and avoiding pitfalls.  Collect gems, whips, chests, nuggets,
tablets, keys and scrolls to aid your progress.  These game are as much
strategic as they are pure arcade fun.

All Kroz games are designed to work correctly on ANY computer system, regardless

of microprocessor type or speed.  Although they are best played on a color
system, they do have an option to be played on a monochrome system!

QUOTES:

The following is a review of the new Kroz games from The Software Labs catalog
of shareware games:

"It's pure dynamite!  A unique combination of arcade action, strategy and
adventure unlike any other game you've played.  Some levels are puzzle oriented,

which makes a great change of pace from the high action parts of the game.
You'll find new terrains, traps, spells, hazards, creatures, and levels to
challenge your dexterity, and sound effects galore.  You'll encounter moving
walls, forbidden forests, active volcanoes, bottomless pits and much more,
plus plenty of options.  AND, no two games will be alike!  Great fun, great
challenge, great action--GREAT GAME!!!"
                                                  -- Software Labs Catalog

"Five Stars!"  (Highest rating in their system!)
                                                  -- Sizzleware Catalog

"Four Stars!"  (Highest rating in their system!)
                                                  -- Public Brand Catalog

"Five Stars--As good as the best commercial programs available."
                                                  -- Micro Star Catalog

"Here is my check for the use of your fantastic program, thankfully you are
not charging by the hour...or I would be bankrupt!.  I am currently
stationed in Korea, and your games have been the highlight of my tour."
                                                  -- CW3 Daniel W. Evans, PA
                                                     1st Bn 5th Infantry

"My family is fascinated by the Kroz series."  (Family picture enclosed!)
                                                  -- Isabel Goehringer, Germany

The following is an actual letter from a grandmother of the young age of 64:

"I have lived in Kroz for almost a month and was sorry tonight to finally find
the Amulet.

"It really is strange what an illness your game can be.  I have found myself
going over in my head a particularly difficult level right in the middle of a
conversation.  To tell you that I have enjoyed the challenge would be very
understated.

"I am a Grandmother who has traveled around the world, but found no place
that was more interesting than your world of Kroz.

"Please keep my address and drop me a note when you have a new game.  Guess
that about says it all.  Best of everything in the future, I hope that you
become the Agatha Christie of computer games."
                                                  -- Patricia Baker, RI
"P.S. I have died a million deaths!"


"We REALLY enjoy your Kroz games.  We also thank they are a steal at the price
you ask.  Keep up the excellent work!!"           -- Yvonne May, TX

"I teach Data Processing at the North Lawrence Area Vocation Technical Center
in Bedford, Indiana.  I am writing because my students found your game Kroz
fascinating.  They are learning to program and would like a listing of Kroz
to dissect and study as a class project."
                                                  -- Prof. David Leary

"We have enjoyed your games IMMENSELY!  Please keep us up to date on any new
games you design that are as fascinating as these Kroz games have been."
                                                  -- Emily Wilson & Family, NY

"It's GREAT!.  More challenging and addicting than any other game I've ever
played, commercial games included!  I definately like your style and would
be interested in any more Kroz games you have."   -- Susan Hanna, NH

"My family and I enjoy the games immensely.  I don't want to tell my students
about them--they might never work on their computer science projects again!
                                                  -- Dr. R. Michael Wharton
                                                     York University, Canada

"You have me hooked.  Send me all six Kroz volumes.  Thanks for making my
leisure time more enjoyable."                     -- Pierson Jones, PA

"Unique, exciting arcade-adventure game. Tops!"   -- The Software Labs


ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
บ THE LOST ADVENTURES OF KROZ บ         (75 new levels!)     $20 registration
ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ

By far the biggest and the best of the Kroz series.  New features include
creature animation, constantly growing forests, gravity wells, ropes, spears,
daily diaries, and many, many more!

If you survive the 75 levels you'll get to read the sacred Tome (book) of
Kroz that explains the untold stories that players have demanded.  Also, for
Rogue players, you'll finally get the Amulet of Yendor!!!

QUOTES:

"One of the most captivating shareware games available!"
                                                  -- CWI Catalog

"As usual, you've outdone yourself with the new features of Lost Adventures
and I'm looking forward (anxiously but quite impatiently) to the next Kroz
game you create."                                 -- Helen Bestafka, NY

"Your new features completely amaze me.  My friend Richard and I have had
many many laughs while playing Kroz.  Everytime we think we have a level 
figured out, up pops something new.  It's just great, so keep up the great
work.  Sincerely hope you continue to make these Kroz games."
                                                  -- John W. Clifford, IN

"I have just completed your amazing game THE LOST ADVENTURES OF KROZ.  The
problem that I now face is that I am not willing to 'go gently into that
good night' of retirement.  I am not content hanging up my whip and sitting
in the rocking chair with my memories.  After completing all seven Kroz
games, I feel as if I'm going through withdrawal without another Kroz fix
to look forward to taking.  Maybe I cound open up a home for old Kroz
Crusaders!

"If there are any Kroz creative juices in your mind, please stimulate them
for just one more game.  Just one more that's all I want, just one more.
Then I can stop, really I can stop, but I want just one more!"
                                                  -- Tonnie A. Hoyle, OH

(This game is still too new to have dozens of quotes, but give it time. -- SM)



ษอออออออออออป 
บ SUPERNOVA บ                                                $10 registration
ศอออออออออออผ                         
Our best adventure game requires an entire 360K disk!  Has as many features as
even the best commercial adventure games, and then some.  Like a 16-color
screen, ASCII graphics (that even work on non-graphic systems), 1000+ word
dictionary, over 160 game locations, 400+ sound effects, a "hint"
command, and more.

You begin on a remote mining planet with just your battered space ship and the
hope that one day you'll have a job that actually pays!  After an amazing
discover you begin a trek that spans four planets, including a huge planetship.
All to save a civilization from utter extinction--from a star ready to explode! 


In the Sept-Oct. 1989 issue of Shareware Magazine, Publisher Richard Peterson
rated Supernova among his list of must-have "software gems", which included
in all 35 programs.  Supernova was the ONLY game on his list!

QUOTES:

"Supernova has sound, color, action and great adventure.  Everything I wanted."
                                                  -- PC-SIG Directory Guide

"It's addictive!"                                 -- Brian Tuck, Reviewer
                                                     Hot Sheet

"We know people who get all Apogee programs--this one is a good example of
why they're addicted!"                            -- Gemini Marketing

"Better than any adventure by Infocom."           -- George Broussard, TX

"My all-time favorite game, please make a sequel!"
                                                  -- Nance McQuigg, NY


 
ษออออออออออออออออออออป 
บ BEYOND THE TITANIC บ                                        $8 registration
ศออออออออออออออออออออผ
It's a text adventure game that mixes elements of science fiction, action,
fantasy and rollicking adventure.  The story begins with you standing aboard
the Titanic just seconds before the ship sinks!  In this story of riveting 
survival you'll discover a long forgotten undersea mystery, travel to the
Earth's future, fly a shuttle to a floating city and be chased by a slobbering,
three-armed creature--and that's just the believable part!

QUOTES:

"...as sophisticated as the best commercial adventure games by Infocom."
                                                  -- Shareware Magazine
                                                     (Program of the Month)

"First class adventure from Apogee Software--riveting!"
                                                  -- Gemini Marketing

"If you've played any of Infocom's famous text games you'll notice that
Beyond the Titanic is quite similar to Zork and Planetfall.  And to add to
the game's realism, sound effects are used throughout."
                                                  -- Dave Cagle, Reviewer SW

"The program allows multiword sentences instead of verb/noun commands.  Play
starts on the sinking Titanic, and through a series of strange and imaginative
occurrences you end up...(not going to give it away!)"
                                                  -- Personal Computer Magazine

"As a programmer, I'm amazed that this game understands full English sentences.
We've been working--unsuccessfully--on this area for a year now.  Can we buy
your code?"                                       -- Dr. Paul Short, AZ

"After you pick the cabinet's lock, how do I heal my broken arms?  ...also, I
love this game, send me a list of other games you've made."
                                                  -- Edward DiGiovine, OH

"It's equal or better than most expensive adventure games.  Great!"
                                                  -- PC-SIG Directory 


 
ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป 
บ TREK TRIVIA, VOLUMES 1 - 10 บ   $4 per volume or $30 for all 10 volumes
ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ
T.V. Guide magazine called Star Trek "...the most popular TV series of all
time."  Now we challenge your knowledge of the award winning show with a
series of 10 Star Trek trivia games.  Each volume has 100 multiple choice 
questions, and when you answer a question correctly you'll be rewarded with
a "Bonus Fact".  Bonus Facts are additional tidbits that even further expand
your Star Trek knowledge.

What type of crystal is used to power the engines of the Enterprise?  What
is Mr. Spock's first name?  How fast is warp 2?  What does the Prime 
Directive prevent the crew of the Enterprise from doing?

Did you know that Dr. McCoy's medical instruments were actually modified
salt and pepper shakers.  Or that it was Leonard Nemoy who developed the
idea of Mr. Spock's Vulcan nerve pinch (so as to make Spock less violent).
Or that the Enterprise is 947 feet long.  Or that Joan Collins, Terri Garr,
and Ricardo Montalban all appeared in a Star Trek episode. Or that the
Enterprise was named by Captain James T. Kirks father!

It's all here in Trek Trivia.  You'll also receive a secret code that lets
you answer each question automatically.

QUOTES:

"The game moves swiftly and the challenge is great...The 100 true and false
and multiple choice questions are provocative.  [The bonus facts will amaze]
even the most devout Trekker!"                    -- Shareware Magazine

"I'm a Star Trek fan and these trivia games answer my prayers, thank you!"
                                                  -- Buddy Frye, PA

"Enclosed is my check, send me the other 9 Trek games...I'm hooked."
                                                  -- Amy Maher, CT

"I like the way TREK TRIVIA is played like a game, you've done a fantastic
job with these programs.  Keep up the good work." -- Steven Blackburn, TX


 
ษอออออออออออป
บ WORD WHIZ บ                   $5 per volume or only $14 for all four volumes
ศอออออออออออผ

A unique and challenging word game.  Test your knowledge of the sometimes
crazy English language.  The English language has more words than any other,
and we rarely use ten percent of them!  Not only that, many words we use
are consistantly used incorrectly.

Example:
  
     If you perused at new book, did you...

     A. Read it carefully and thoroughly, or

     B. Just skim through it

Over 80% of all Americans pick answer B, when in fact the answer is A!

So if you like this kind of challenge, and don't mind the "learning
experience", then you'll love Word Whiz.  (It's also a great education game
for high school and pre-high school students, but while they're having fun,
don't let them know it's good for them, too!)



ษออออออออออออออออป
บ SUPER GAME PAK บ                                                  Only $10
ศออออออออออออออออผ

This is a new disk that's been put together to introduce you to Apogee's game
line. All games are fully playable, there's no "demos" or "crippled" versions.

The games are:    Shrine of Kroz -- Same as Return to Kroz
                  Raiders of the Lost Mine -- Avoid the Skull while you dig
                           for gold nuggets
                  Word Whiz -- Volume I of the new word challenge series
                  Rogue Runner -- Kinda' like Pac Man, but a lot different!
                  Trek Trivia -- Volume I for Star Trek fans
                  Asteroid Rescue -- Fly through asteroids as you save
                           astronauts from being crushed
                  Block Five -- Play computer in ancient strategy game

Even if you have one of two of these games already, it is still worth the
low "trial" price to get the other games.  Also, knock five dollars off the
Super Game Pak price if you order $30 or more of any other Apogee games.

ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออป
บ OTHER TRIVIA/QUIZ GAMES บ                                          $4 each
ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออผ

     The Astronomy Quiz - This was the feature program on an issue of
            Big Blue Disk.  Test your knowledge of the universe and the
            people who discovered its workings.

     The Computer Quiz - How much do you really know about your computer
            and the way it works?  Take this quiz to find out!

     The Basic Language Quiz - Rate you level of BASIC understanding in this
            fun quiz game.


In the meantime have fun and good luck.

Sincerely,

Scott Miller
President


==============================================================================
PROGRAMMERS ONLY:

Source code is available!

All Apogee games are programmed using Turbo Pascal version 3.0 or version 5.0.
The games listed below are available as ASCII source code files for you to
study and learn from.  Great for novice programmers trying to learn the
"tricks of the trade"!  (I wish I would have had this offer when I started.)

Only the following games are available:

           Kingdom of Kroz (Turbo Pascal 3.0) -- $190
           Supernova (Turbo Pascal 3.0)       --  125
           Word Whiz (Turbo Pascal 5.0)       --  100
           Trek Trivia (Turbo Pascal 5.0)     --   90
           Return to Kroz (Turbo Pascal 5.0)  --  350
           Asteroid Rescue (Turbo Pascal 3.0) --   45
           Lost Adventures of Kroz (TP 5.0)   --  950
           Rogue Runner (TP 3.0)              --   45

Note: Word Whiz and Trek Trivia can be EASILY modified to be ANY type of
      quiz game, which you can then use to put into shareware yourself!


























Secret Code: QWERTY
Reveal this code on your next order of $40 or more and receive a $5 discount!