$#KAbout rdk software
rdk software was started in early febuary 2000. it was started by gravenstein trilogy 
maker thomas hubert.
soon after, conrad russo joined him. rdk software was started to make add-ons for 
computer games, so people could keep having fun with games after they finish them. 

terror returns, rdk's first project, was made by rdk and KFINdustries. as rdk made 
the new levels and graphics, and kfin did all the source code changing. rdk hopes 
to have a long history and we also hope to bring alot of fun to people.

other things coming to you computers from rdk software:
Operation: Shut Down 10 new levels for blake stone, aleins of gold.

rdk software is:
thomas hubert:
rank: founder, map making, graphic making, programming, and keeping rdk softwares 
ear's tuned with cool music.
when he's not on teh comp: soccer, rugby, tennis, music, guitar, girls.
conrad russo:
rank: map making, graphic making, programming, and treing to beat zelda 64.
when he's not on the comp: what?


THANKS FOR PLAYING TERROR RETURNS!

$#K												Contents

StoryStory
Game infoInfo
Q & AQ___A
About rdk softwareABou_rdk_software
$#KGame info

THE 3 PARTS OF STAMPHALLS FORTRESS:
level 1 to 3-'The old castle'
$#KInfo
Terror Returns is set intro "areas" which was first done by Gary Regland (maker of 
Schabbs 2000).

levels 1, 2, and 3:
This area is the old castle. You enter here. Everything is very old and run down. 
This caste was used as a infantry barrack during world war 2. Alot of gurad patrol. 

levels 4, 5, and 6:
This area is the power plant. All the power used to make mutants come from here. 
Alot of S.S. Be carfull! This place is full of suprises.
levels 7, 8, and 9:
This area is the labs. Alot of offices, and you will for sure find some areas that 
show how horrid it is to bring the dead back alive. You will find alot of badies 
here.
level 10:
This level is the storage area. You will also find all the bosses here. But you must 
first get past whatever is left of the neo-army.
$#KQ & A
got a problem that is no listed here? got a bug some were? e-mail spacemarine@dccnet.com


Q: The game is sssooo slow. What is going on?
A: Make sure Terror Returns is the only thing running. What? You got ICQ, doom, and 
Netscpae running as well? Turn 'em of, and gte to Terror Returns.
2nd A: Make sure you have enough room for the game.
Q: The sound is not working. What should i do?
A: Make sure your speaker is turned on (and cranked up!), also checked that the game 
sound is on. 
Q: The game is to hard! I keep getting killed! What should I do?
A: Play on an easier skill level.
Q: I'm stuck in the game!
A: Keep trying. Nothing in the game is impossible. If you just can't finish the level. 
E-mail me at spacemarine@dccnet.com
$#KStory

the year is 2011. your great grandfather was B.J Blackzitz. your father tolf you 
all about how he saved the world against the nazis in WW2. though your father became 
a actor in his fathers fame, you joined up with the millitia as an agent, as your 
grandfather.

one day you were at a base party, when you were pulled away by Captain Luncer. you 
were taken to the generals office. your heart raced. would you get your first big 
misson? you had all the small things with other people, the boring crap were you 
would go into a house and stop drug operations. you only went to space once to a 
satilite, and that was a 1 hour job.
but the general? he was so powerfull. it took you 15 minutes just to get to his office. 


you walked in and sat down. 
"tea? cofee? beer? anything?" asked the general.
"no thanks." you respond.
"look Will, we have only about 48 hours to get you to south west germany and arm 
you. so i'll get to the point."
germany? arm you? you bit your lip, but it was hard not to smile.
"a rather large group of very hostile neo nazis have taken arms in germany. way back 
in the 40's your grandfather killed the crazy bastard dr. Schabbs. all his notes 
and so on were set to be burned, but the man in charge you this, Gus Stamphall, took 
these papers and ran of. he then passed them down the family, hoping sombody try 
to do what hitler did again. and now, Gus Stamphall the 3rd has done it. he got together 
with about 94% of the neo nazis in the world, made some deals for some guns and stuff, 
and started all again, he is making more mutants to try to take over the damned world."

you did not blink, breath, or think. you knew now that your dream had came true, 
you were gonna follow in your grandfathers foot steps.
"Stamphall has gone to South West germany into an old catsle and set up. only the 
first part of his fortress is an old catsle though. he dug down, deep deep deep and 
set up a power plant, and a labs area. not only has he made moree mutants, he has 
also brought Hans Grosse back to life, to protect him
anyway, we want you to go in, kill these neo nazis, kill Stamphall and the Grosse."

you accept the misson, and get on a plane.
you just don't know if its a one way ticket or not.
