COUNTDOWN TO DISASTER
Created by Gary Ragland

A Wolfenstein Add-On


	Thank you for downloading this add-on, my first contribution to the Wolf3D Add-On 
Catalogue other than a few loose levels since Schabbs 2000, way back in March 1999. 
This project was once envisioned to be a massive sequel to the above mentioned add-on, 
but as most of you know, it fell apart miserably in a cloud of dust. But finally, 
the day has come; Countdown To Disaster is finished, although it is slightly scaled 
back…


Tools Used:
Good old Mapedit 8.4 for the levels
Wolfedit 2.1 for the few Graphics Alterations… err, Transfers
The Wolfenstein 3-D Source Code

Files Included:
<CDOWN.EXE>
<GAMEMAPS.WL6>
<MAPHEAD.WL6>
<VSWAP.WL6>
<MAPDATA.C2D>
<OBJDATA.C2D>

	Yea, that’s all there is. You’ll need the full version of Wolf3D to play C2D… You’ll 
need your own VGA* files, etc. Just make backups of the originals first. Then run 
CDOWN and you’re all set. I also provided the DEF files I used for Mapedit. I finally 
came to the realization that some people are going to cheat and look before actually 
finishing a level anyway, so at least this way the levels can be viewed with proper 
DEF files.

Storyline: Same as Wolf3D’s Episode 6: Confrontation

Final Boss: General Fettgesicht

New Graphics: Minor… just a few things from Spear and Schabbs 2000

Source Changes: Again very minor. Changed Ceiling Colors, Custom Music Order, Corresponding 
Par Times, and 2 more keys (for a total of 4) with Icon Bar Status. The Episode Select 
screen was also cut out.

C2D contains 13 levels, plus the final showdown with Fatface on level 14. Also, there 
are two secret levels (15 and 16), both of which involve taking down a Grosse brother. 
If you’re acquainted with my other add-ons, the style of the levels should be nothing 
new. I’m from the school of design that believes Hall/Romero had it right way back 
in 1992, so I try to maintain the original atmosphere as much as possible while still 
being unique and original. Thus, no hidden keys, and no Grosse overload. But the 
rules are thrown away for secret levels, so be aware of that before entering the 
realm of mystery. One new thing this time around in terms of level design is the 
size of some of them. Many of them (but not all) are MASSIVE due to the need to find 
four separate keys to find the elevator.

	Well, that’s about all you need to know. Good luck and enjoy!

	Thanks to the Usual Suspects:

Chris Chokan: For inspiration and his ability to keep an outdated game as fun as 
it was the day it was released… his times on Episode 3 are superhuman. Also, for 
all his help on Schabbs 2000, which indirectly impacted this add-on.

Brian Lowe: For giving my add-ons web-space and publicity. Also for maintaining the 
best Wolf3D site the world has ever known….

All those forgotten but always appreciated pioneers who created Mapedit

Brian Rowan: For his web-based tutorials on the few Source Code changes I attempted. 
Damn, HEX editing was a lot less complicated (but way more limited).


-Gary Ragland
April 2002

Check out my other add-ons:
	Assassinate Hitler (1998)
	Schabbs 2000 (1999)
	Episode 4 (2001)

E-mail: gr46@springmail.com

