These levels i have restored have been a real learning process for me, they
have been underway in 12 - 15 months. I didn't want to compromise & send out 
some crappy levels full of errors, thanks to my 2 friends & beta testers CRQ
& Kenneth for coming up with some great ideas & suggestions.

Here comes a short description of some of the levels.

Note : * means new things added or small changes, to a level.

                                 Episode 1.

Level 1. Basically just level 1 heavily extended, you can get out on the par 
         time if you know the way. Heheh.
*        Widened a corridor & changed some wall patterns, corrections on a few 
         floorcodes. Added 3 guards. Made a last minute change.

Level 2. Short & (maybe) sweet.
*        Changed the exit slightly, FINALLY it fixed that damn hole in the
         stats screen. YES :=) Redecorated some walls and moved the silver key
         out in plain sight, other small adjustments were made.

Level 3. Amazing isn't it :) i think most of you will dislike this huge maze
         there is however a way out. It is possible to get under the par time
         if you know the right way.
*        Tested the new blank elevator wall & it works fine. Haunted out 2
         small floorcode bugs, put back the "deaf" marking on a guard.
         Made it a bit more challenging. <g>

Level 5.
*        Fixed 1 floorcode, accidently 2 rooms were using the same floorcode.
         It made me wonder why the ss guards were running around in the
         corridors. Fixed the floorcode in a secret room where the guard
         became non-reacting unless shot at. DO NOT use a "deaf" guard next to
         doors locked or unlocked. It made all the guards, both moving and
         standing non-reacting even when shot at. :(

Level 6. First time you will meet Gretel Gr”sse, also be careful at the end
         of the level.

Level 7. This level is a bit chaotic it is stretched to the limit, reguarding
         static objects so some places the guards won't drop their ammo.
         Finally got to use the barbwire effectively.
*        Fixed an elevator bug.

Level 8. The place of many mystery doors ?
*         Changed the elevator corridor wall pattern and a few other wall 
          patterns.

Level 10. A hard level with many secret doors, now where is that gold key ?
*         Changed the wall patterns a bit, fixed the last floorcodes. Damn i
          accidently used the 2 same floorcodes on 2 different locations, the
          mutants shot me dead very quickly. 2 items were replaced. Changed a
          secret slightly.
          
                                 Final note.

At last these 10 levels are ready. After 1« years work in the last weeks time
i have given them their last overhaul, checking everything 2 or 3 times but
enough is enough. So here they are in their final version, enjoy.

                                 Episode 2.

10 levels are playable except for 1 level they are all finished. Here is a 
status on them. 
Note : Wiped out all the small floorcode bugs, otherwise you could get 104%
       secret in the stats screen leaving the player somewhat baffled.

Level 1. 100% finished, only small things are missing. On this level i made an
         experiment with the elevator, by adding 2 different floorcodes there. 
         1 for the secret level & 1 for level 2, you'll have to find out by
         yourself what switch to push ;).
*        All the small things are in place.

Level 2. 100% finished, some guards needs to be added. 
*        Added a lot of guards & obstacles.

Level 3. 100% finished, the basic design of the level are nearly ready. Now a
         lot of guards & obstacles needs to be placed.
*        Guards added & redesigned some walls particullary 1 wall irritated 
         me. Whoops removed a well that accidently blocked a door. 

Level 4. 100% finished, more guards & obstacles needs to be placed.
*        Some more food & ammo were added & removed, fixed the elevator added
         a few doors. 

Level 5. 100% finished, more guards & obstacles needs to be placed.
*        Missing things are all in place.

Level 6. 100% finished, needs a secret room or 2. As proofed before the Gr”sse
         family is quite big, (see the original set episode 6 level 10) so 
         now Gretels twin sister Helga have sworn to avenge her.
*        Secret room added.

Level 7. 100% finished, needs a lot of guards & obstacles.
*        threw in a big bunch of guards added some lights & other small 
         things. Decorated the big room and threw in some surprises.
         Added some more guards to the ending and some treasure.

Note :   In the big room the phenomenen "dissappearing bodies" will most 
         likely occur, i have made some precautions to minimize the effect.
         Email me if you still thinks it's a big nuisance.

Level 8. 95% finished, needs everything.
*        Added a bunch of guards, changed the wall pattern in a corridor. 
         Still the level looks a little crude, so some more items will be
         added.

Level 9. 100% finished, only needs some guards.
*        Made a new secret room.

Level 10. 100% finished, only needs some guards, new walls & obstacles.
*         Cleaned it up, added a few mew rooms. Corrected 1 secret.
          Added the missing guards, some treasure and other goodies. 

Note :    DO NOT try to get 100% secrets or you could be spending perhaps
          hours trying. Don't think it's possible too.
          Does anyone remember level 28 from wolf3d ? Again Adam had extended
          it wery much, i softened it up a bit with some big and small rooms.
          Still it can be very frustrating to complete. (You were WARNED).

                                 Episode 3.

Level 1. 100% finished.
Note : This is going to be the only lonely level in this episode, unless 
       anyone wants to contribute a level or 2. (Hint hint) :)
       Take a look at the design at the level with a mapeditor & you'll know 
       why it's named "That old hungry whale". (Hint try to remember an old 
       fairy tale ;=) ). Now you should now what happened to The Dopefish at 
       least in Fearwolf. This level is dedicated to the fine specimen of of 
       the race Pisces Swimetus.
*      Added some very small adjustements.

                                 Episode 4.

Added a small corridor with a small surprise.

For those nosey people who can't resist to check out everything. :=)


                                 Episode 5.

Note : Level 1, 4, and the secret level is made by Rob. I found these levels
       together with an old version of mapedit, i have made some adjustements
       to them but have kept the basic design.

Level 1. 100% finished. This is the smallest level in fearwolf, yet crammed
         with angry soldiers high speed action all the way. Switched the keys 
         around added 3 officers some more treasure & health.

Level 2. 75% finished.

Level 3. 100% finished. The big open area looks a lot like e4l2, which is 1
         of my favorite levels. Take a step inside and it's more complicated
         plus some tough action, i really enjoy it.
*        Changed some of the guards in the open area.

Level 4. 100% finished.

Level 5.

Level 6. 95% finished. This level comes from the shankenstein set. I removed 
         the easy way out, redecorated almost the entire level added a few
         surprises. Still some redecorating remains to be done, also some of
         the personnel needs to be changed. :)

Level 7.

Level 8.

Level 9. 100% finsished. Originally it was level 27 from wolf. Since Adam had 
          extended it quite a bit, i decided to make to a boss level. Reduced 
          1 area to make it more suitable for a boss. Good luck if you wants 
          to find all the secrets. This is also the last level to be used from
          the wolfenstein 3d fear of vengance set.

Level 10.

Note : More floorcode bug hunting for the whole episode. Let me know ASAP if
       you find anything suspicious and i'll squash it promptly.

                                 Episode 5.

Added a small corridor with an endgame trigger.

                                 Episode 6.

Note : No levels have been added yet. So far only 4 levels are in the design
       process. Unlike the rest of the episodes no keys will be kept in secret
       areas but will be in plain sight, expect some guards though.

Level 2. 90% finished, the design is finished, a lot of enemies have been
         added a secret is now filled up. Still a lot of small items are
         missing.

Level 3. 95% finished, a secret needs to be added. Yes this level is a bit
         inspired off e1l7, which is 1 of my favorite levels. I wanted to
         make the right part of the level look like it was abandonded i think
         i have achieved this by making it more filthy. It's possible to end
         the level under par times.
*        Added 2 secrets. Put in some more doors to minimize the 
         "dissappearing guards" effect, more decoration and guards were added
         too.

Level ?. 25% finished, only the beginning of the level is ready so far.


Level 5. 95% finished, this is a big action filled level, you can see right
         away where to exit. I switched the keys around, otherwise the level
         could be exited very early. Removed a couple of dogs, redecorated
         the level a bit fixed a few floorcodes.
Note :   In the secret area 1 of the secret blocks can be pushed the wrong way
         i was somewhat inspired by the large secret area in e2l4 & wanted to
         make 1 myself, so here it is.

Level ?. 65% finished, The starting and ending areas are ready yet it needs
         to be extended. A long corridor have been added so the level can be
         finished.

Level 8. 85% finished, changed some wall patterns, added a secret and fixed
         some floorcodes.

Level ? 75% finished, heh you don't want to know where i got the inspiration
        for this level. It needs secrets, guards, items and floorcodes.

Added a small corridor with a small surprise.

For those nosey people who can't resist to check out everything. :=)

                                 Demo levels.

Level 32, 38, 44, 57, are all copies of exsisting levels they are only because 
      Wolfenstein uses them, to show the level/game demos. Otherwise a strange 
      wall would appear because there is no starting position, this will cause 
      the game to slow down a lot. (command = set wolf3d.exe to snail mode).

                                 Sneak Preview.

If you warp to level 32 or 57 here's the chance to play a 2 of the upcoming 
levels, they are fully playable.

If you have any comments on Fearwolf, do email me on fraulein@ofir.dk any
mail will be read and answered. Unless it contains something like this.
Yer levels sux. 