Welcome stranger!


	First things first, thank You for downloading Wolfenstein 3D The Second Encounter's Editor's Version! This release contains the source code and map definitions for many editors of this mod and this was released for one reason, that is to bring the good old DOS modding back to shape once again. So I hope I will see lots of mods out there in the future that will use this thing as their mods base, feel free to change the source code and make something new out of it or just release a mappack for this thing if you want to. An important note, you don't have to share your new source code if you don't want to and you can upload your mod wherever you want to!

	However... I have 2 serious things to say. Firstly, if you decide to use this as base, then please give proper credits, this is very important, more than you would think! Secondly, I do not want to see an SDL or an ECWolf/LZWolf port of this mod, because of the reason I stated above, this mod, this Editor's Version and their goal is focusing on DOS modding, so a port might kill this thing from achieving its goal! Oh and expanding the serious things to 3, thirdly, before you would think this, I do not have a problem with SDL and ECWolf mods or modding at all, I just want to see people to show some love towards DOS modding, I mean, if we think about it, the original game was released to DOS and we all fell in love with that, I think it just should deserve more love from the community and people.

	Once you get started you should know the followings the source code can be found inside a folder called TSESOURCE and it contains necessary files you need, other files that aren't necessary were deleted and I doubt anyone would use them anyways and there's an OBJ folder inside the main mod's folder, maintained for the object files your compiler will create. You can find the map definition files for many editors within the EDITOR TOOLS, including: ChaosEdit, FloEdit, HWE, MapEdit8.5, NMap, TED5, VSWolfTools 2, WDC. Note that these are just map definition files, you have to download your preferred editors yourself! And you also need to be aware with the flaws of few editors, like MapEdit just opens up mapfiles with .wl6 extension, but I included mapfiles with that extension so you can create your maps with the editor, however you have to export them with another tool and import them into your main game and there's editors that requires your mapfiles to contain 60 maps and not less, some editors cannot count doors towards doors counter or secret pushwalls towards the secret doors counter and such! You also need to be aware of each limitations, I kept the original game's limitations which means: each map can have 399 static objects, 150 enemies, 64 doors and the maps are on 64x64 canvas! I also mentioned the main mod's folder that is called W3DTSE, it just contains the mod which is the most up-to-date version and the OBJ folder that is maintained for your new .exe and the OBJ files created by the compiler as I said before, if an update arrives to the main mod then this version will be updated as well and if a new mapeditor will see the daylight in the future then an update with the mapdefs for that editor will arrive! Enough talking, time to get started!

	But at last I would like to say a big thanks to ID Software for releasing the original Wolfenstein 3D and it's source code! Thanks to the many authors for making editors and tools for Wolf3D: Adam Biser, Vincent, Chaos Software, Florian Stohr, Havoc, Bill Kirby, Dave Huntoon, Bryan Baker, Matt Gruson, K van den Helm, Chris Chokan, John Romero and Nathan Linebuck!

- Wolf3DGuy