                                WOLF GRAPHICS - MODERN/U.S.
                                v1.1

By Denis Papp (dpapp@muskwa.ucs.ualberta.ca)
 & Sean Blanchette

VERSION 1.1
- Sean has gotten around to fixing up the SS.  They now have spiked
hair and shades.  The head still explodes, even if you use a knife.

-------------

These graphics were edited using WOLFEDIT.EXE by Bill Kirby and
some graphics editors onthe side.  I believe NEOPAINT was most
widely used.

Note the graphics are NOT finished. The final character (you) has to
be changed to something more interesting.

I think the biggest advantage here is that this *should* be allowed to
be distributed publicly in Germany.  I think, maybe the story would
have to be changed or whatever.  Since existing German law does not
allow Wolf 3D to be distributed...  since it involves killing
Germans, even if they are Nazis.

DESCRIPTION
-----------
A mix of our own Gore graphics and U.S. graphics.  These gore graphics
have it where the guard gets a hole blown in his chest when you shoot
him.  You can actually see through the hole.  Neat :)

The normal guards just have a camouflage.  They also have pale faces
(unintended!  WolfEdit does funny things to the colors)

When you kill the SS his head blows up.   Dead bodies look much more like
piles of gore than dead bodies.  The dog could use some touching up, not
much was done.

The food was done by my 8 year old sister (Lianne) - not bad I say...  Supposed
to be McDonalds or Dairy Queen or something

All wall ornaments (except 1 which didnt need changing) were changed to
something representing the USA...  The wall painting is well, either
some corrupt general, some general, or the president in army uniform.
I prefer the latter, not like it matters though, since the story
is 'flexible'.

The story would be better if the walls were less 'castle-like'.  Hopefully
we get around to that too.

REQUIREMENTS
------------
Well, Wolf3D, the shareware version.  I dont know if it'll work with
the registered full package.  Basically its made to replace the
VSWAP.WL1

USAGE
-----
Type WOLFUS to install it, WOLFUS R to remove it.  It will rename
your original (present) graphics to VSWAP.OR

STORY
-----
Totally up to you.  Here are some options:
1) You are some psycho murderer escaping from some military prison.

2) You are a nazi being held prisoner in some evil allied caslte, and want to
go around and kill US soldiers, during world war II.

3) Some Commies have invaded the US and taken over a prominent US
building (or castle?).  Hence the wall paintings/etc are US.  The Soldiers
are terrorists or whatever in camouflage.

4) The U.S. government (or military) has gone corrupt sometime in the
near future.  You're out to save the world.

5) You've been struck on the head too many times.  Are you are just
plain loony.

6) You're really bored of the old Wolf graphics, so you wanted some
new ones.

7) Cattle mutilators have infiltrated the military ranks of some
small country.  Seeing the US as a major cattle power-base, they
have seized control of a processing factory (disguised as a castle
and set in the wilds of Vermont).  You worked at that processing
factory, and were sleeping in one of the cells when they attacked
and took over the place (everyone was chased out).  Now they
have begun their evil plans of wantonly mutilating cows and
sending the parts via snail mail to unsuspecting consumers in suburban
U.S.  You are out to stop them from performing this evil deed of
destroying the sacred Indian animal.


