                     _______
                ____|__     |               (R)
             --|       |    |-------------------
               |   ____|__  |  Association of
               |  |       |_|  Shareware
               |__|   o   |    Professionals
             -----|   |   |---------------------
                  |___|___|    MEMBER


PRODUCT REGISTRATION

Ordering information is clearly defined in the file named ORDER.FRM.
The only problem is that you can only order games in sets of two or
three (or six in the case of WOLF3D).  If you are happy with just
this first episode and would like to do something for us so that
you can sleep at night knowing you always register what you use,
fill out a postcard with the following information. 

If it were not for INSERT THIS PRODUCT NAME HERE episode one I would
be busy working.

YOUR NAME
YOUR ADDRESS
CITY, ST, ZIP
YOUR PHONE

and mail it to

Id Software
1515 N. Town East Blvd. #138-297
Mesquite, TX  75150

Once you lick the stamp and the postcard hits the bottom of the
mailbox we will consider THE FIRST EPISODE of the game registered
and you a fine, upstanding citizen who sleeps well. 

This is a limited time offer (it expires at the end of time) and no
phone, fax or email orders will be accepted.  YOU MUST FILL OUT A
POSTCARD AND MAIL IT TO US. 


PRODUCT SUPPORT

Feel free to contact Apogee or Id at any of the following places for
technical support. 

Apogee help-line 214-278-5655 (9-5 CST, Monday - Friday)
Apogee Fax line: 214-278-4670 (24 hours, 7 days a week)
Software Creations (Apogee & Id's home BBS): 508-365-2359
        Leave a message in the MAIN AREA 
Internet: help@idsoftware.com (will be in place by Jan.15,1993)
        Most of the big systems (CIS, GEnie, AOL,Prodigy, etc.) have
        an Internet gateway for their mail systems. Check the
        documentation of the system you use to send us email at the
        above Internet address. 


To be honest with you we try to stay on top of most all the game
related areas on-line (CIS, GEnie, AOL, RIME, Fidonet, USENET,
etc.).  If you leave a message for help in any game area odds
are it will get to us and you'll get an answer. 


OMBUDSMAN STATEMENT

This program was written by a member of the Association of Shareware
Professionals (ASP). ASP wants to make sure that the shareware
principle works for you. If you are unable to resolve a
shareware-related problem with an ASP member by contacting the
member directly, ASP may be able to help. The ASP Ombudsman can
help you resolve a dispute or problem with an ASP member, but does
not provide technical support for members' products. Please write
to the ASP Ombudsman at 545 Grover Road, Muskegon, MI 49442 orsend
a CompuServe message via CompuServe Mail to ASP Ombudsman
70007,3536.


DEFINITION OF SHAREWARE

Shareware distribution gives users a chance to try software before
buying it. If you try a Shareware program and continue using it, you
are expected to register. Individual programs differ on details --
some request registration while others require it, some specify a
maximum trial period. With registration, you get anything from the
simple right to continue using the software to an updated program
with printed manual.

Copyright laws apply to both Shareware and commercial software, and
the copyright holder retains all rights, with a few specific
exceptions as stated below. Shareware authors area ccomplished
programmers, just like commercial authors, and the programs are of
comparable quality. (In both cases, there are good programs and bad
ones!) The main difference is in the method of distribution. The
author specifically grants the right to copy and distribute the
software, either to all and sundry or to a specific group. For
example, some authors require written permission before a commercial
disk vendor may copy their Shareware. 

Shareware is a distribution method, not a type of software. You
should find software that suits your needs and pocketbook,
whether it's commercial or Shareware. The Shareware system makes
fitting your needs easier, because you can try before you buy.
And because the overhead is low, prices are low also. Shareware
has the ultimate money-back guarantee -- if you don't use the
product, you don't pay for it.


DISCLAIMER - AGREEMENT

Users of this program must accept this disclaimer of warranty:
this program is supplied as is.  The author disclaims all
warranties, expressed or implied, including, without limitation,
the warranties of merchantability and of fitness for any purpose.
The author assumes no liability for damages, direct or conse-
quential, which may result from the use of this program."

This program is a "shareware program" and is provided at no charge to
the user for evaluation.  Feel free to share it with your friends,
but please do not give it away altered or as part of another system.
The essence of "user-supported" software is to provide personal
computer users with quality software without high prices, and yet to
provide incentive for programmers to continue to develop new
products.  If you find this program useful and find that you are
using this program and continue to use this program after a
reasonable trial period, you must either send us a postcard as
described above or order one of the series of games described in
ORDER.FRM. The registration fee will license one copy for use on any
one computer at any one time. You must treat this software just like
a book.  An example is that this software may be used by any number
of people and may be freely moved from one computer location to
another, so long as there is no possibility of it being used at one
location while it's being used at another. Just as a book cannot be
read by two different persons at the same time. 

You are encouraged to pass a copy of this program along to your
friends for evaluation.  Please encourage them to register their
copy if they find that they can use it.
