The Ultimate Wolfenstein
By Titus II
Version 1.0



1. Storyline
2.Description
3.Enemies
4.Episode Storylines
5.Weapons
6.Exe Changes
7.Other information
8.Credits


1.
After B.J Caprured Spear of Destiny a mighty computer-system, called the SpearSystem 
 in castle Hollehammer was activated. That System re-created all the Nazi bosses 
that B.J. had destroyed. Hans Grosse Schabbs,Professor Quarkblitz, Hitler and Hans 
von Scholl. Only Otto Giftmacher wasn't recoverable. So he was replaced with the 
Supermutant (that was Schabbs's idea) and there is only one step to the rising of 
worldwar three. Now they are training in an old castle almost ready to rule the world. 
Well alliance informes B.J. and he's back in the action with the nazis on CASTLE 
WOLFENSTEIN.



2.
The Ultimate Wolfenstein is 50 level-6 episode game based on Wolfenstein 3D. Here 
are the changes

- New Enemies
- New Sounds
- New Wall Panels
- 50 new levels
- Some new Bosses
- New programming

Note that episodes 4 and 6 contain 5 levels (and no secret levels).In Episodes 1 
and 6 there are 2 bosses per episode (in ep.1 there is Quarkblitz's clone on secret 
level and in ep.6 there is Hans Grosse on level 5).




3.
Ultimate Wolfenstein contains a whole new cast of enemies. 

1. The weakest is Sentry Drone. This thing comes close to you and explodes his aluminium 
shield several times. When you shoot it, Sentry Drone explodes completly.

2. Brown Guard is stronger than Sentry Drone and fires from a pistol. When he dies 
he'll drop a bucket of ammo.

3. SS-Guard. You know them from Wolf3d already so they don't need introducing. You'll 
meet these guards most in UW.

4. Cemistryguards. These guys are working on creation of new nazis. They are most 
wanted in Castle Wolfenstein so they are quick and carry a rapid-fire-pistol. Meeting 
them is not pleasant.

5. Chaingunners. Or Blue-Guards are weak but make a lot of damage cause they got 
a chaingun. Unfortunately chainguns have a selfdestruction system that will destroy 
chaingun when owner dies.

6. Robotdoctors. They have got a padron of pure energy for weapon. Why? Well cause 
they are the ones that create new bosses. you'll meet them in all episodes.

Next enemies are bosses

7. Hans Grosses re-creation. He's strong and you'll have to meet him in two episodes 
- episode 1 level 9 and episode 6 level 5. 

8. Dr. Schabbs re-creation. He's the weakest of all bosses. By the way he decided 
to make Doctors instead of mutants

9. Hitler. Well, that should say all.Altough this time without his robotic costume, 
BUT! has got now a rocket launcher 

10. The Supermutant. Schabbs's only mutant in UW. Only but very strong ! Has an electric 
shield on his head.

11. Professor Quarkblitz. Armed with a Chaingun and a pistol his difficult to defeat. 
You gotta meet him twice in ep.1  secret level and ep.4 level 9.

12. Hans von Scholl. Heh...Thought he died when capturing Spear. Well actually he 
did. The thing you'll see there is really just Dr. Schabbs' assistant in Von Scholl's 
costume. When he dies, SpearSystem is programmed to autoteleport his body to Hollehammer 
crypt.




4
Episode 1 - Castle Wolfenstein
All latest nazis are practising in castle Wolfenstein. They are almost ready to go 
and rule the world. So you are sent to Nazi barracks in castle W. (floor 1). In the 
end you'll be in Colonel Grosses office.

Episode 2 - Nuclear Plant
This takes place in a nuclear plant where SpearSystem gets it's power. You must destroy 
it that no more nazis can be created. In the end you'll meet Hans von Scholl (or 
at least what's left of him)

Episode 3 - Desolate Dungeon
After destroying Nuclear plant you arrive to desolate dungeon. This place is now 
abandoned...well anlmost, cause it's full of Nazi clones who are placed into dungeon 
cause they are too fanatics. And who's the "victim" of that fanaticism? Hitler of 
course. Destroy him in his Bunker and get out of there quickly!

Episode 4 - Mount Zugspitze 
This is the highest mountain in Germany. This is an alternate way to get enough energy 
for nazis that need to be created. If this place is destroyed SpearSystem will use 
all energy left to defend himself. Anyhow, Powersystem is guarded by Professor Quarkblitz 
- The only one who can maintain Powersystem Not his clone this time (Ep.1 Flr 10).


Episode 5 - Castle Hollehammer
Here is the CLONEMACHINE that creates new nazis. You destroyed it's energy sources, 
but castle Hollehammer holds still enough power to create thousands of new nazis. 
But before you reach it you must deal with Dr. Schabbs finest creation - The Supermutant 
(not the Ubermutant).

Episode 6 - Castle of Spear
And at last castle, that is almost completly destroyed, only 5 floors are still left... 
And Dr. Schabbs the guarder of SpearSystem is inside it. Find him...Destroy him...And 
the SpearSystem.

Congratulations - You did it! You destroyed the SpearSystem. What Should you do now? 
Retire and wait for an new mission that certainly is coming


5
Weapon no 1: Hand.
The only good thing about kicking with a hand is, that this cost you no bullets. 
However this is the weakest weapon at all.

Weapon no 2: Revolver
This weapon is a little stronger but fires non-rapidly, wich makes also a average 
weapon

Weapon no 3: Machine gun
Get those from ground (who put them there) and from SS-s. Fires rapidly wich makes 
it a good weapon. Also has a brand new look.

Weapon no 4: Double-barreled Laser Cannon
Best weapon in the whole game and in the whole Germany. Makes Major damages by firing 
two Laserbeans per shot (but loses double ammo)

6.
Ultimate Wolfenstein contains some exe changes:
You can now pick up up to 150 bullets
When ammo limit is reached you can still pick up new clips, but counter doesn't increase.

All cheat codes eliminate (actually not - you can get proper command line code from 
my homepage)
Schabbs made stronger
New episode names

7
Versions of Ultimate Wolfenstein:V 1.0 (this one)and V.1.0W(If you mail me You'll 
get the add-on pack).New versions and updates are made only when someohe informs 
me of bugs. I'll make a new version also if I decide  or make every episode have 
10 levels.

E-mail of bugs or levels that you would like to share at willmann@online.ee with 
subject WolfBug.Plaese write also your thougts what whould cause the bugs. Comments 
and Questions at same address with subject WolfQ. I get damn lot of mails, and I 
don't have time to read them all.

8 
This TC is made by:
Aro (Titus II) Velmet, homepage www.angelfire.com/wv/tituswolf -(levels, graphics,sounds, 
and exe)
Sven (Tiger) Sosnitski, homepage www.angelfire.com/mt/themummy -(storyline)

Beta testers: 
Flo Stöhr (http://www.wolfnode.de)
Nate Smith (http://members.xoom.com/wolf3d_world)
Shawn Moseley (http://www.angelfire.com/me/moselesh/wolf3d.html)
Taavi Kübar (e-mail:Tarmo.Kybar.001@mail.ee)
Brian Lowe (http://www.users.globalnet.co.uk/~brlowe)




