07.28.2002


Infiltration



THE STORY:

Seattle.

April 20th, 1995.

Nazi terrorists have seized an office building for reasons
unknown. Commanding and watching their every move is Dr. Willek, a member
of the "Fourth Reich Association", a Nazi network with ties all across the
globe. Along with barrels of rich and profitable gasoline, the terrorists
have also seized several hostages who happened to be in the building. All
in all, the situation is looking fairly grim.
             You are Floyd Witkinstein, member of an elite covert op force
out of Belgium. With night as your disguise, you are to slip into the
building from below, down in the basement level. Your mission, as it always
has been, is to eliminate the terrorist force and find any hostages you can.
Good luck!

(Yeah I know the story is a little cheesy but I thought it up right on the
spot! Oh yeah, despite this, please don't steal it!)


Levels:

FLOOR 1: "The Basement"

You are in! With the dark night behind you you must eliminate any wandering
patrols here and make your way up to the first floor

FLOOR 2: "The Lobby"

Welcome to the first floor. The halls are hollow and the gunshots are loud,
so be prepared when you awaken the entire floor with any noise you make. Also
beware, for one of Dr. Willek's Elite Spies is on this level, and he holds
a necessary key on him.

FLOOR 3: "Offices"

This is the heart of all operations in the building......or at least it used
to be until the Terrorists took it over.

FLOOR 4: "Hostage Holding"

This next floor is where the terrorists have apparantly set up holding areas
for some of their hostages. Free them by killing their captors.

FLOOR 5: "Sealed"

By now the terrorists are well aware of your presence and have sealed off
certain areas of the floor, including the entire west wing. You must
destroy these bastards before they seal you in and destroy YOU!

FLOOR 6: "A Terrible Discovery"

You discover that Willek has set the building with explosives and now the
mission objective has changed..........

FLOOR 7: "Escape"

You return back to the 5th floor but the elevator is now destroyed! You must
find an alternate exit out of the building before it explodes! In their haste
to leave the building quickly, the terrorists took with them most of the
expensive barrels of gasoline (and therefore removed the ones that had been
previously blocking the west wing). Be advised that some more of Willek's
Elite Spies were dropped in at the last moment just in case you somehow
managed to escape.

FLOOR 8: "Showdown"

You are dropped by helicopter, along with a large stash of health and
ammunition to Willek's hideout nearby, not far from the building. You must
eliminate his remaining forces and then kill him before he presses a remote-
detonated trigger that will send the building straight into the ground,
sending many innocent lives to their death. We can't let that happen.
