Hitler's Chalet
The Grounds

A Wolfenstein 3D Adventure

Copyright © 2002 by Ian Brown  

Storyline

While the rest of Europe lay shattered around them, a collection of Nazi thugs built and celebrated up in the mountains near the Bavarian town of Berchtesgaden.  This area became Adolf Hitler's Alpine command centre - he is said to have planned the 1941 invasion of Russia from this spot.

Famous buildings in this mountain retreat include:

The Eagle's Nest tea room 1,834 metres (6,000 feet) high on the mountaintop, built by the Nazi party as a present to Hitler on his 50th birthday in 1939.
Der Berghof Obersalzberg - Hitler's personal chalet at Obersalzberg.  Allied bombers reduced the Berghof to rubble in the final days of World War II.  The proud honour of liberating the Berchtesgaden belonged to the U.S. ArmyŐs Third Infantry Division.  On May 4th 1945, they hoisted the Stars and Stripes over the smouldering ruin of the Chalet.

Other American boots had strode through the grounds and paced the floors of that Chalet some years earlier, however.  Those boots belonged to agent extraordinaire, B.J. Blaskovicwz.  

Trace his footsteps through the grounds on the way up to the Chalet in this the first part of an exciting Wolfenstein scenario, 'Hitler's Chalet.'  And remain on high alert!  Once you've got as far as the Chalet door, you're still less than halfway to your ultimate objective ... to steal a copy of Hitler's plans for the Nazi offensive in Russia and get them back safely into the hands of your bosses!

All the very best - and make sure you've got the right gear for the thin Alpine air ... .  We need those documents! 


Walkthrough, Part One

LEVEL 1-1
Step cautiously into the first wooded section - unless, of course, you're up for an early demise!  Apart from the opening confrontation, this initial level is none too taxing ... more a case of acclimitisation to your new Wolfenstein surroundings.  Stroll around, get a feel of the place - and make sure you pick up those 5 golden goblets behind the iron gate!

LEVEL 1-2
You'll have noted that those wooden sheds do contain a fair bit of ammo, so they're always worth a visit.  Both keys are in tricky locations.

LEVEL 1-3
Lowest number of guards yet - just 54 - but don't allow that to deceive you!  One of them more than makes up for half an army!  
A slight, sinister twist to the terrain ... and hopefully a testing and enjoyable one!

LEVEL 1-4
Be careful who you use your ammo on ... all is not as it first appears!  A little tour behind the grilles will prove very rewarding.

LEVEL 1-5
Double the number of guards from the previous level and some wide open spaces ... .  Your first sight of a new enemy may be quite enlightening!

LEVEL 1-6
Full of nasty surprises - and a good test of your ability to make it through to the Chalet doors themselves ... .
     
Walkthrough, Part Two

LEVEL 2-1
The opening section of this level brings back memories of Level 1-1 ... only this time the fight is more ferocious.  Watch out for the goulish snipers and a heavy piece of machinery!

LEVEL 2-2
Lost in the woods?  Better find some direction quickly!  Get beyond them and the heavy squadron are waiting to pick you off!

LEVEL 2-3
A complete century of enemies, some long corridors and a few wide open spaces ... enough said!  It's easy to get the impression that Hitler doesn't care to see you!

LEVEL 2-4
This one will keep the muzzle of your gun white hot!  Grab all the ammo you can see - it won't be long until your rucksack lightens!

LEVEL 2-5
The grounds around this Chalet seem to go on forever ... .  Don't throw in the towel just yet, though - you've haven't too far to go.

LEVEL 2-6
The one-way-system may be quite straightforward - but there's quite a collection of potholes and craters waiting for you.  
This final level has a full complement of guards scouring every inch of the grounds for you ... welcome to the last 127 enemies between you and entrance into the Chalet!  

Installation & Operating Requirements

Drag Hitler's Chalet into the "Levels" folder. 

Open Wolfenstein 3D. 

You'll see a list of scenarios.  Select Hitler's Chalet from the list, and click OK.

... You're in business!!

Note ...

 Hitler's Chalet requires Wolfenstein 3D Full Version.

If you don't have Wolfenstein 3D, you may like to make enquiries from one of Wolfenstein's chief advocates, Josh Mills ... 
e-mail: copperfield@worldnet.att.net

Hitler's Chalet requires a sizeable chunk of memory to run.  I recommend at least 5 MB of memory.

Distribution & Use

Hitler's Chalet is FREEWARE ... i.e. you don't have to pay a dime for the pleasure (?) of wading through these levels. 

What I do ask is that if you edit Hitler's Chalet and choose to upload it, please tell me about it and credit me with the original concept/design.

Graphics

I've no problem with you 'borrowing' any graphics I have been responsible for.  Many of my wall graphics are custom made (though I did borrow some material from various well known Wolf scenarios ... thanks to all the original authors!).

Special thanks must go to Clubey for his excellent work in converting the Barnacle Wilheim frames from PC graphics (I merely gave him a brown flak jacket for camouflage purposes), and to Laz for his graveyards icons and ghosts ... and ... apologies for leaving anyone out!
 
Circulating

Please send Hitler's Chalet in its entirety to every corner of the internet.  It may just do something to keep Wolfenstein 3D chugging along.  Fact is, there are lots of people who still play this great game.  Put this scenario on DVDs, CDs, Zips, or the plain old floppies - whatever. 

Just keep the original documentation with it.   

Statistics & What's Next 

By the time the glorious words "The Door's Open" come up on your screen, the blood of just over 1000 enemies will have stained the gravel, grass and graveyards around the grounds of Hitler's Chalet.  You'll have picked up around 100 treasures in the process - enough to give you an extra couple of lives.

Next Off The Production Line ...

Currently, I'm preparing graphics and designing levels for several new scenarios:

one with a North African theme (Afrika Corps);
plus the sequel to this current scenario (Hitler's Chalet - The Castle) ... 18 levels of firefight as you make your way towards Hitler;
and the other - a longer term project - based on the underground hospital located on the island of Jersey, occupied by German forces during WWII.

Contact

Do contact me with your comments at: 

ian.brown@sparticus.net

Your mail is much appreciated