Nexus is the more recent of the two scenarios, written in 2010. Apparently, I started work on it on New Year’s Day – I’m not quite sure how I found the time on what’s usually a fairly packed day! This scenario is also probably the more interesting of the two for MacenWolf users, since it’s a total conversion.

One of the goals of Nexus was to experiment with the idea of pastiche. Nexus is divided into four quadrants, each of which is designed to evoke one of Laz’s scenarios: Hitler’s Graveyard, Astrostein, Amerika the Beautiful, and Die, Himmler, Die! You’ve already ported three of these, so your players should recognise most of the references! However, the aim wasn’t just to reflect the look of the scenarios, but to really try and capture the feel of their design. I wanted the quadrants to really feel like they were actually written by Laz, especially with all the different design approaches Laz uses for the four different scenarios. I’m quite pleased with how it turned out. I think I’ve done a fairly decent job of capturing Laz’s style here, although of course it’s far from perfect!

I had hoped to go further with this ‘pastiche’ style, and create a scenario that pastiched a whole bunch of different designers – Clubey, Josh Mills, Aaron Teplitsky, Richard Peck, etc. – but unfortunately that never got beyond the planning stage.

Nexus is slightly easier than The Lift, I think. Before the player discovers the looping nature of the level, it’s very likely they’ll come across an area they can’t access. This should hopefully encourage them to explore further, and eventually stumble onto the secret path through the level, eventually guiding them to the exit.

This scenario is also a rare example of a ‘split level’. It’s an idea I came up with to take advantage of Mac Wolfenstein’s ability to spawn the player inside a wall. You can use this to produce a setup where the player chooses one of up to four possible ways to start the level, and are locked into that path once they’ve made the choice. To my knowledge, only one level was ever published that used this approach – the final level of Clubey’s Spear of Longinus.