
The WolfGames Trilogy

NOTICE: This game requires Chokage V1.221 or higher, {Download the game/upgrade Here.} 
Unzip the Chokv*.zip file (like any other, including Trilogy.zip) to your Chokage 
Directory. 

------------------------------------
The Trilogy Includes...

This set includes 6 classic wolfenstein adventures in one great package. The missions 
included are: 

Alien Invasion 

Travelling through space, your ship seems to have collided with a planet that shouldn't 
be there. Confused... you report to Colonel Bill the error. He replys suprisingly 
that THIS is what they have been looking for, for years. It's not a planet, but actually 
a spaceship in the form of a planet--- heading for EARTH! Your job is to evacute 
the human prisonners from the ship (while hopefully not getting caught by the aliens 
on the ship) and destroy the mastermind in charge of this operation before the ship 
enters Earth's atmosphere and destroys the human species entirely... 

Halloween Spookfest 

Walking alone trick or treating (ran off from your dad because he mentioned "splitting 
the candy with him"). You get robbed of 'garbage bag sized' treat stash by a big 
gang of thugs in Grimm Reeper costumes (kick the first 12 people's asses but the 
gang was just too big, and they were way older than you), you then decide to-- start 
trick or treating again. The Pumpkin Head seems to be the most popular costume this 
year. Wandering down the dark street at night, you come across a very big spooky 
house (it looks haunted.). Knocking madly, you accident knock a hole in the steel 
door. Having a real sweet tooth, you enter the house--- with your pistol someone 
accidently gave you instead of treats, nothing is going to get between YOU and your 
search for wads of CANDY. 

Searching for Purple Dinosaur... 

Music has been your life for, since you were born. All the time you'd be watching 
videos and dreaming of being a rock star. So what does this have to do with Barney??? 
Well, after Beavis and Butthead got popular (and started to take over MuchMusic), 
you weren't too thrilled, but then things just got worse and worse. Beavis and Butthead's 
rates went up enormously over time and they stared in shows across the nation. Late 
last year, they signed a contract with Barney (and his big wad of $840,000,000 dollars 
in '94) to take over MuchMusic (and many other stations as well) because it all worked 
out, Barney would be for the kids, Beavis and Butthead for the teens (crazed about 
them, all the teens wanted to be just like the two morons) and, well--- it helped 
encourage adults not to watch as much television. Barney had also taken over all 
the kid shows, i.e. Winnie the Pooh and Babar. You are not one to take this crap, 
you and three of your friends fly to Hollywood to end this nonsense, the Way the 
Allied Forces ended the war, with many deaths... 

Xmas Edition: The Scrooge 

All you ever really wanted for Christmas was the internet so you could download that 
Awesome new game Chokage. Christmas night, you slept right by the chimney waiting 
for your present... but you fell asleep in the process. Hearing a noise like bells, 
you wake up startled to death looking at your clock- 12:04 am. The jolly fellow had 
just left. Opening all the present with your name on it, all you find is a Electric 
Guitar and chocolate. Shit! Suprised and pissed, you decide to do a little Chimney 
surfin' of your own--- looking for that two timing fatso so you can DESTROY HIM!!! 
(and gets presents in the process). He couldn't have gone far.... 

Spear: Lost Levels 

As part of the allied forces, your team was set to attack Castle Nuremberg and retrieve 
the spear from Hitler. B.J. Blazkowicz, Jean Moulin... and you were the leaders. 
Finding a secret moving passage in Level 4, you wander without your group into the 
old elevator. Things seem to turn worse either than better, the elevator seems to 
be stuck (at floor 19) and there is no way out. After the days pass, you wander on 
and on. A signal comes in on your comm, "CONGRATULATIONS! ARMY RETURN, THIS IS BASE 
COMAND, B.J. HAS SUCCESSFUL RECOVERED THE SPEAR". You try to contact them but in 
all the exitement, accidently shoot your comm across the room into a mossy, unseeable 
area. When you go to retrive it, the ground starts to fall. You fall down with it- 
and later land in a very smokey bright blue room, and behind you stand, a green Nazi 
and a blue Raygun? All you want to do now is escape.... 

PacMan & Clown Encounters 

After going in the electric chair, you (the most wanted criminal in the world) take 
a visit to Hell. But it was all framed, you didn't set an atomic bomb over France 
to destroy whole french nation, really! And that thing about trying to destroy the 
Great tower of Pizza so you could have your own special european holiday like Guy 
Fox is all just a superstition. But now you're dead. Well, in the boiling fire of 
death area, Satan feels scared that you might wipe out his workers because of your 
so called 'past actions' so he curses you with a life inside a Video Game Cartrige. 
This will be fun, NOT! You decide to check the place out. Hmmm... nice, PacMan is 
trying to eat you... PACMAN IS TRYING TO EAT YOU???? "Hey, look what level I got 
up to Mike," yells someone playing the nintendo, "there's a Human in here, guess 
I'm supposed to eat him!" he assumes. What kind of stupid joke is this? you think. 
"Crack!" the sound of someone stepping on something big, "Son! Why in god's name 
is your Nintendo in the middle of the floor? Why don't you play some other games 
on that thing, like Wolfenstein or that circus game with all the Clowns?". After 
she stepped on it, strange things seem to happen to the Cartridge (it got somewhat 
out of whack), and while you were hiding in the box with the PacMan ghosts, the games 
had combined . Soon the circus clowns and pacmans had taken over the nazis in Wolfenstein, 
and they strangely seem to obay Hitler. The only way to get out of the stupid game 
is to conquer it..... 



 

EXCITED YET??? THEN... 

{Download TRILOGY.ZIP}

Yeah ok... so it's more like a double Trilogy. But who's complaining? You may be 
surpised that this was the first add-on to have changed ceiling colours and new music 
in the original track (Chokage was the first to have it in a new track). Wow, aMaZiNg. 


But I gotta warn you that this file is REALLY big (2.7Mb). It'll take almost twice 
as long for you to download as Chokage did because of all the new graphics in this 
great pack. But look at what's included, this pack is definately worth it--- Chokan's 
Word. 

And yes, this is for an add-on for Chokage. If I get enough demands, maybe I'll make 
a stand alone version-- But why would anyone want that when they could have two great 
games under one menu??? 

Enjoy!!! 