This game manual will guide you through Tristania3D,
describing the game in full length, including frequently
asked questions, troubleshooting, technical support, and
special thanks to everyone who took part creating this
computer game. First, let us see a little history.
The Project Tristania3D was started back in 2003,
when I had a dark-gothic girlfriend. She was the one, who
revealed Tristania’s beautiful music for me, as well as
militarists and dark-goths are allies, and as such, I made a
promise to her of creating a PC game about her favourite
band. Unfortunately, we were not meant to be together
forever, but I always keep my promises – so I did not
stop working on the game. And finally, after six years of
hard work, Tristania3D finally came to life. After Vibeke
Stene had left the band, I decided to finish working on the
game as soon as possible – this game will serve as a
memento for Vibeke Stene for all her fans, and of course,
a great entertainment for all Tristania fans about their
favourite band.Tristania3D is completely freeware, it can be
distributed freely, copied, or shared everywhere without
altering the game files, including the documents. You may
not sell or ask money for this game, the emulator, or the
songs – Tristania3D is a copyrighted property of
Tristania and Lambda Team.
Tristania3D was released in two different versions.
The standard version consist the game, the emulators and
the manual. The Collector’s CD-ROM edition includes
the full-length original soundtrack album of the game (the
songs which are not made by Tristania of course). There
is no in-game difference between the standard or the
Collector’s CD-ROM edition of the game If someone
would want to have a Collector’s CD-ROM edition of
the game, he should get in contact with me.
Reactor 
Lambda Team Contents
[1] Technical information
[2] Running the game
[3] The world of Tristania3D
[4] Hints and strategies
[5] Troubleshooting
[6] Frequently asked questions
[7] Appendix
[1] Technical information
Official name: Tristania3D
Developer: Lambda Team
Publisher: Lambda Team
Build time: 6 years
Version: Freeware (both Standard and Collector’s CD-ROM)
Type: Portable
Operating systems: DOS/Windows 95/98/Millenium/2000/XP
(The game runs on all operating systems with the emulator)
Tools used:
- EoD engine
- WDC (Wolfenstein Data Compiler)
- IMFCreator
- AtomixMP3
- Audio Playback Recorder 3.6
- Microsoft Paint
- Text-Osterone
- MapEdit 8.4
- Notepad
- Anvil StudioGAME DETAILS: 
Program: Reactor
Graphics: Reactor
Story: Reactor
Sound and music: Reactor
Levels: Reactor
Beta testers: Tassadar, feketemacskusz, TaMáS, gaboca1222
[2] Running the game
Tristania3D runs flawlessly on DOS, Windows 95/98/ME/2000
without the necessity of an emulator, and it also runs on Windows XP
with some performance restrictions (music and AdLib sounds can not be
heard under Windows XP, and the surround effect of sounds will not
work either). Tristania3D can not be started under Windows Vista,
Windows 7, and more upcoming Windows systems without an emulator.
Along with Tristania3D, an emulator program is included to play
Tristania3D under Windows 7 and Vista – DosBox. DosBox is also
freely downloadable from the web.
Tristania3D is a portable software, which means, you do not need to
install the game itself – you can play it without installing. However,
both emulators require installation, so if you wish to run Tristania3D
with an emulator, you will need to install DosBox on your hard drive.
Running the game with DosBox:
If you want to run Tristania3D with DosBox emulator, follow these easy
steps:1: Install DosBox on your hard drive
2: Overwrite the DOSBOX.CONF file with the one that came with
Tristania3D! This is extremely important, as the original
DOSBOX.CONF file does not have Tristania3D specified, and will crash
the game!!!
2: Copy the Tristania3D folder on your hard drive, where the
“Windows” “Program files” “Documents and settings” etc. are sitting
– so directly to the root of your hard disk.
(You can also put Tristania3D in another folder, but then you will need
to tell DosBox where to look for it – I will tell this later.)
3: Regardless where you put the Tristania3D folder, rename it to
“T3D”. You can also give a different name to the Tristania3D folder,
which I will tell later, but make sure it is under 8 characters!
4: Create a shortcut of the DosBox main executable!
5: Copy this shortcut into the game’s folder!
6: Using your mouse, drag and drop T3D.EXE onto the DosBox
shortcut you just copied.
7: Play the game!
Alternatively, you can run DosBox, and type “T3D” to start the game.
How to modify Tristania3D’s folder settings:
If someone would like to put the Tristania3D folder elsewhere, or give a
different name to it than T3D, he shall need to open the
DOSBOX.CONF file and modify a little bit. You don’t need to be a
computer expert for this, but make sure you create a copy ofDOSBOX.CONF, in case 
you mess up something you really don’t want
to.
Double-click on DOSBOX.CONF, and when prompted, select
“Notepad” from the list of programs. Notepad will open
DOSBOX.CONF.
You will see all kinds of words and values – don’t touch them, or you
will regret it. Instead, scroll down to the VERY BOTTOM of the file.
You should see this:
mount c C:\T3D
C:
Do not touch the “C:” at all – the interesting line is the first one. As
you can see, DosBox is told to look for Tristania3D on the C:\T3D
path. If you want to put the folder elsewhere, you shall need to modify
C:\T3D.
Here is an example. If you have a “Games” folder in your C: drive, and
you renamed the game folder into “Tristani”, you will need to modify
the line to look like this:
mount c C:\GAMES\TRISTANI
If you put Tristania3D elsewhere, than your C: drive, you will need to
modify the “C:\” part to “D:\” or “E:\” – it depends on, where the
game folder is.
This might sound confusing, and difficult at first, but you will see – it is
easy as 1-2-3! You also don’t need to configure DosBox, we already did
it for you. In case you still experience game problems, look for the
Troubleshooting section!
You can close the emulator with the EXIT command![3] The world of Tristania3D
So you made it inside the game at last – much better, ye? It is high
time to get familiarized with Tristania3D itself. You might have seen
official game trailers on video portals, but in case you didn’t, this part of
the game manual will give you full description about what awaits you
inside Tristania3D…
I would not go into deep details about the main menu – this is
Tristania3D’s crossroads junction. You can set the sounds, the controls,
the screen size here, and view the help of the game. The “Read this!”
option is a brief overview about this section of the Tristania3D manual,
with the game’s prologue, and the most important aspects of the game,
in case you are in a hurry, and don’t want to stroll through this entire
manual.
You can always access the main menu during playing by pressing ESC.
New game
When you start a new game, you're prompted to choose a difficulty
level. Tristania3D offers 5 difficulty levels alltogether, which you can
choose from. Each difficulty level has more and more enemies appearing
on the levels, right up to the fifth - and final - difficulty level, which
even effects thy game saving possibilities.
Novice - The easiest skill. This is for kids and grandmas only.
Officer - A little bit harder than the previous one, but it's far from
being a challenge.Veteran - Average difficulty, with average amount of enemies.
Newcomers should try this one.
Ace - Relentless difficulty with the most enemies! If you're a true goth,
you'll definitively choose this one!!!
Top Ace - This one is the hardest possible difficulty, a special challenge
for ya!!! It's similar to "Ace", except you have unlimited lives, but
limited save game possibilities!
Once you complete the game on an easier skill level, you might want
to check out the ultimate challenge too. Well, hear this: so far, when
you got killed, you just shrugged and loaded a previously saved game.
You could, since you had the ability to save thy game in every 5th
second. But what happens, if you lose this ability?
At "Top Ace" difficulty level, thy limited lives are replaced with
limited savegames. Which means, you can't save as many times as you
would want - instead, you may start the level over unlimited times.
Looks too hard, eh? Don't worry overly too much - you'll get a new
savegame every time you enter a new level. Also a savegame is awarded
after every 100000 points you collect. Above all this, picking up an
Artifact of Salvation will give you a savegame ability as well (See this
later). You may have 9 spare savegames alltogether. If you see you're
about to exceed this amount when coming across an Artifact of
Salvation, save thy game immediately, thus you'll have a "free save".
Controls
Tristania3D offers four methods of controlling Einar Moen -
keyboard, joystick, gamepad, and mouse. You may configure the
behavior or assign different keys to each of these under the “Controls”
option, the favorized controlling method in Tristania3D should bekeyboard. The default 
factory keyboard settings for Tristania3D are the
following:
Enter: Confirm
Space: Action (Open door, activate switch etc.)
Ctrl: Attack
Up arrow: Move forward
Down arrow: Backpedal
Left arrow: Turn left
Right arrow: Turn right
Alt: Sidestep (must be used with left or right arrows)
Shift: Quickness (must be used with arrows to run, and quickly look
around)
1: Select dagger
2: Select PCV
3: Select Suomi machinegun
4: Select Sabrine MK3
5: Select SmartGun
6: Select Stealth rifle
7: Select Bazooka
9: Select bottles of absinthe
F1: Displays the Tristania3D help
F2: Jumps to Save game
F3: Jumps to Load game
F4: Jumps to sound configuration
F5: Jumps to screen resizing
F6: Jumps to control configuarion
F7: End game
F8: Jumps to Save game
F9: Jumps to Load game
F10: Quit game
F11: Turns messages on or off
Pause: Pause the game
ESC: Quit to main menuLevels
The game's levels - regardless of their location - will constantly
change, as your progress is going on. While you may find the first few
levels quite easy, or perhaps even boring, the situation will change
dramatically in later stages. Don't you expect that a strategy which have
worked on level 2 will also get you out of trouble in level 23. Of
course, there are lots of useful strategies exist, which will always be
effective during your journey, be well prepared for the increasing size
and difficulty. Do not underestimate your enemy - they can outsmart
you if you're not aware.
Main types are indoor and outdoor levels. The great outdoors are
merely different from the indoor areas. The night sky and the full moon
may cause warmth inside you, plants are growing everywhere, and there
are a lot less hostile entities in sight. Outdoor areas also provide
different ways of healing yourself, yet, they also have their own hazards.
Compared to indoor areas, they are much larger, there are very few
doors, less secret areas, and the level exit is usually an archway or a
seemingly locked door.
Secret areas
Hidden areas are an essential part of every location you visit. There
are a number of secret areas hidden in each level. Sometimes the
entrance to such an area may appear obvious, but often it is not! Finding
such areas can be time consuming, but it may be well worth the while,
after all, you can't expect the Courbée Dominate to just leave all the
goodies lying around in the open for you! Moreover, findig hidden items
and equipment is one thing - taking possession of them is another! It can
be really frustating if you notice a SmartGun, or an Artifact of Life
behind a fence, you desperately need it, but no matter how hard you tryto find a 
way to get them, it seems to be impossible. Before you would
start to worry, let me remind you that it's absolutely not necessary to
look for secrets. If you find yourself really low on ammo, or your soul
strength is lower than Marianas Trench, spend thy time looking for
secret areas which will hold the badly needed munitions and health
restores. Fighting off hordes of enemies with a dagger may be very
heroic, but pointless nonetheless. It's no good bravely wielding only thy
knife against dozens of enemies, when there may be a SmartGun hidden
behind the wall next to you!
Some levels may have a "super secret" area that is especially difficult
or tricky to find. These areas generally contain something special, such
as a huge load of treasure, a variety of artifacts, or perhaps access to
some other kind of special area such as a secret level.
Also keep in mind that necessary items are never hidden at secret
areas. Hallways and rooms which are mandatory to complete the stage
can be reached through normal routes. This does NOT mean that it will
always be crystal clear where should you go next, the increasing
difficulty of the game will surely effect the levels, but the necessary
route to finish the level shall never be hidden so well that you're going
to stuck on that location forever. However, if you do happen to find a
key in a hidden area, it may be worthwhile trying to find the bonus area
it opens!
Small short-cuts between two points of the level may be also hidden,
and since these are considered as secret areas, you may expect that they
shall not be empty.Secret levels
Some secret areas hold ammunition. Some other secret areas has
treasure, edibles, or perhaps even artifacts for you to acquire. However,
the best secret areas are those, which contain a hidden exit for you,
leading to a secret level! Sometimes it shall be quite easy to find one,
especially if you enjoy finding every hidden nook in the area, but
sometimes it'll be unimaginibly hard to locate them, because it's that
well-hidden.
Tristania3D has 12 secret levels alltogether, twelve extra courses for
you to enjoy! That should be more than enough. And don't think the
secret levels are all the same! No, Sir! There are 3 different types of
secret levels, each type has its own unique characteristics.
Normal secret levels
These are similar to the regular levels of the game, but are generally a
LOT more interesting.
Super secret levels
Super secret levels are extremely well-hidden, and they usually have
some crazy unique theme. Expect something different!
Challenge levels
If you think the other levels are tough, then you're in for a shock!!!
Challenge levels contain our nastiest traps, the most fiendish riddles and
hardest puzzles you ever imagined!!! You start every Challenge level with
only your dagger and possible bottles of absinthe, every other firearms
and ammunition is taken away from you. At the end of the Challenge,
wonderful prizes and glorious weapons await you to reward thy
persistence. However, if you find the level too tough, there shall be anemergency 
exit for you near the start of the level to evacuate and
proceed with thy task. Of course, such cowardice has its own
punishment: You will start the next level with only a dagger!!!
Don't be ashamed, if you can't pass the Challenges at first, they're far
from impossible to complete. But don't get me wrong, it will NOT be
easy!
Tristania3D has 4 secret levels, 5 super secret levels, and 3 Challenges
altogether. Good luck finding them!
Armaments
Although many goths refuse violence and weaponry as an irrelevant
thing to dark-goth sub-culture, many of them seem to familiarize
themselves, and come along well with weapons and firearms. Or perhaps
not firearms, just close combat weapons. Existence and usage of
medieval weapons are a part of the dark-goth sub-culture, such as
swords, blades, spears and so on. Whilst these weapons surely look
menacing, and were commonly used everywhere to rid people of their
lives, technological advancement made all these killing tools abundant,
and uneffective. Sure thing that their role was great in the history of
weapons, but nowadays, in the age of long-distance guns and firearms,
swords and spears became quite useless against machine guns and rocket
launchers. Therefore, to achieve victory above thy enemies, you'll just
have to get a little "modern", and use the firearms, which are at your
disposal. Alltogether you will have 7 different weapons, which you can
carry, and use against the odds.1: Dagger
The dagger isn't just there as a fallback weapon for when you run out
of ammunition. It can be used as a "silent" weapon when you want to
dispatch an enemy without alerting others nearby. It worths mentioning
that against certain enemies - such as Suicide Drones, the dagger is
virtually useless. Same goes for distant enemies shooting at you, or many
enemies attacking you at the same time.
It goes without saying that the dagger is the weakest weapon among
all. It's excellent to do the stealth jobs, but when you're forced to
respond to 3-4 attacks at the same time, a dagger is less than
insufficient. There is, however, a solution for this problem: if you could
take possess of a special Artifact of Fury during thy journey, it shall
effectively power up thy dagger, you will be able to kill ALL hostile
entities with one knife thurst! See "Artifacts" section for more detailed
information.2: PCV
This semi-automatic 9mm pistol will be thy first firearm. It has light
firepower and low rate of fire. While this light handgun has reasonable
rate of fire to assassinate sole and unsuspecting enemies, it's strongly
recommended for you to use something more powerful. The PCV uses
standard 9mm bullets, which you can store 100 piece of - or 200, if
you wear a backpack. In case of ammunition shortage, PCV can be a
valuable help against Suicide Drones.
3: Suomi machinegun
Having successfully proved its reliability in the Soviet-Finn war, the
Suomi machine gun is the most frequently used firearm. It has medium
rate of fire, and consumes the same 9mm caliber ammunition the PCV
does. This machinegun type is widely distributed along this region, many
of thy adversaries also bear this firearm. While its firepower is effective
for close and medium ranges, the Suomi is really inaccurate for greater
distances.
4: Sabrine MK3
Sabrine MK3 assault rifles are considered an effective anti-infantry
tool, which is only slightly weaker against heavily armored targets. The
Sabrine MK3 uses 12,6mm rounds, which makes it stronger than
original assault rifle types, not to mention machineguns. Ammunition is
received through a bandolier, increasing its fire rate twice as fast as the
Suomi. You may carry 100 bullets with you for this gun, or 200 if you
obtain a backpack.
5: SmartGun
Unlike the former weapon projects, the SmartGun is a fully modern
high caliber cannon - the strongest possible armament you will ever find.
Its special construction ensures incredible fire rate for the cannon,double bandoliers 
allow constant and fluent ammunition supply. The
firepower of this gun is simply devastating, and nothing could compare
with its great accuracy even for big distances. Originally designed against
incoming air assaults, the SmartGun can cause terrible massacre among
the enemy, being equally effective against infantry and heavily armored
targets too. Just like the Sabrine MK3, the SmartGun uses the high
caliber 12,6mm ammunition.
6: Stealth rifle
Rare, but extremely effective silent weapon. This sniper rifle may be
thy primary weapon in stealth approach situations, when you need to
assassinate an enemy without alerting everyone around with the sound
of gunfire carnage. The Stealth rifle has a built-in advanced silencer
along in the barrel, ensuring no sound during the "wet work". The
rifle's firepower is strong enough to immediately mince a smaller enemy.
One shot - one kill. It is perfect for quick-shots at incoming large enemy
group, or taking out enemies from cover. The stealth rifle is capable all
of that, without causing a total alert in the area you're exploring. The
Stealth rifle uses very specialized 14mm ammunition, so I don't advise
you to waste thy bullets on a couple of pesky guards, since you'll never
know when can you find more. Also note that the Stealth rifle may kill
common enemies in one shot, it's dramatically useless against boss
enemies or heavily armored targets.
7: Bazooka
This bulkly weapon can be the strongest and the weakest in the same
time. Launching armor-piercing rockets to the longest ranges for massive
damage, the bazooka should be thy choice when fighting against multiple
hostile entities in the same time, or encountering large groups of heavily
armored targets, like boss enemies. A direct rocket hit will immediately
tear smaller enemies to shreds, and thanks to the explosion radius
damage, also wounds other enemies near the rocket's impact area. Since
this is the only weapon, which uses explosive ammunition, it isfrequently used for 
shooting from beyond a corner, killing anyone who
gets near the corner's area, or setting off explosive barrels, which
couldn't be blown away by other means. Bazooka should be thy
favorized tool against boss enemies, especially because they are
vulnerable for missiles and high caliber guns. Of course, even bazooka
has downsides. Its reload time is mighty long, and it's unable to hit and
destroy targets hiding behind a cover - like a chair, or a counter.
Rockets cannot out-maneuver objects in their way, so make sure you
have a clear view before attacking. It's also not advised to use the
bazooka for small terms of combat at close ranges. The rocket explosion
may happily damage YOU also, not only thy enemies. Technically, the
firepower of the Bazooka can be stronger than the SmartGun, but it's
completely useless against targets behind a cover, and in close conflicts.
Ammunition
Once you have some great weapons, you shall also need ammunition
for them, which you can collect on your way from here and there. To
create effective battle plans, it might be wise to learn about the
ammunition, it might effect your chances greatly if you know what you
can expect, if you happen to come across a stash of bullets. Once you
recognize and get familiar with the different kinds of ammunition, you
shall have no problems with firearms.
9mm bullets
This small pile of bullets has bright brass colour. If you pick 9mm
bullets from a dead enemy, it will increase your grand total with 4. If
you collect 9mm bullets pile from elsewhere, you will get 8 shots. The
majority of the hostile entities are using 9mm caliber firearms, so they
will drop this kind of ammunition once you bring them to their knees.9mm clip
This dark gray loading clip has 25 pieces of 9mm bullets inside – used
by the PCV and the Suomi.
12,6mm bullets
Unlike 9mm ammo, this pile of bullets has bright blue colour, and
they are also bigger. Each pile of 12,6mm will give you 8 more bullets
for the Sabrine MK3 and the SmartGun.
12,6mm box
A whole supply of 12,6mm ammunition in a box. It shall give 25
bullets for the Sabrine MK3 and SmartGun.
14mm bullets
This black loading-clip has four 14mm bullets in it, which is used by
the Stealth rifle.
Rocket grenades
A pair of rocket grenades for the bazooka, which will increase your
supply of rockets with 2.Backpack full of ammo
This heavy leather backpack contains a whole supply of various
ammunition to all thy weapons, plus you may carry TWICE as many
bullets as before. You may have only one backpack, so you can't triple
thy ammunition capacity by finding a second one, although if you find
another backpack, you still get a whole motherload of bullets!
Also do not forget about if you die, you will lose your backpack as
well, this means, you shall need to find a new one to increase your
ammunition carrying capacity again!
Soul strength
While wandering through a level, thy biggest concern will be your
own life. This indicates how many health you have left. Every time you
get hit, or step somewhere you shouldn't, you lose some of thy soul
strength. Smaller damages will take away less amount, devastating hits
will take away a lot more. If it reaches zero, you die, and you start the
current stage over, unless you have a saved game on that level. Never
turn thy attention away from the SOUL marker located at the status
bar, toying around with thy life is a really dumb thing to do. Wherever
you go, be extremely careful - if you lose all your lives, thy adventure is
over.
Keeping my advice in thy mind is a good idea, but it's still inevitable
to suffer smaller-bigger wounds, especially during firefights, and lose
some of thy soul strength, which you should regain as soon as possible.
The nominal amount of soul strength is always 100%, although there
are chances to increase it beyond this value, right up to 200%! While
wandering through areas, you will probably found certain items, which
are capable restoring thy lost soul strength.Vial of holy water - A few drips of 
holy water in a blue vial, picking it
up shall raise thy soul strength with 5%. Not much, but unquestionably
better than nothing.
Wormwood - This type of plant is often found under this climate,
particulary at outdoor areas. Consume fresh and plucky wormwood to
gain 10% soul strength and feel better, right to the maximum of
100%.
Lord's supper - Traditional Lord's supper meal with fresh bread, and
red wine. Taking this sacrament will restore 10% soul strength up to the
maximum of 100%.
Glass of absinthe - Ahh, yes, the world-famous "green fairy". Every
goth's favourite drink is at thy service! Sipping thy absinthe will make
you feel many times stronger, and better, restoring 25% of thy lost soul
strength, but not beyond 100%.
Bottle of absinthe - Drinking some absinthe to regain lost energy is a
very nice thing. A bottle of absinthe allows you to refresh yourself
anywhere you wish! Just like the glass of absinthe, a bottle will restore
25% soul strength as well. Moreover, you can take the bottle with you,
and drink it in the time of need. Just press the "9" digit button to
select the bottle of absinthe, and the "attack" key shall commence the
drinking procedure :) Make sure the land is clear of enemies before you
start to drink! You may carry the maximum of 2 bottles with you, even
if you have a backpack.Artifacts
These holy icons can only seen and used by a true goth - such as
yourself. Upon finding and possessing, they ensure thy personal power's
increasement temporarily. Try very hard to get hold on them! They can
be a key to thy success...or more often, they may mean the difference
between life and death...
Artifact of Life - Getting hold of this holy symbol will reward its
owner with the wonderful gift of instant healing, boosting his soul
strength to 125%! Moreover, if you happen to collect another Artifact
of Life while you're on 125% soul strength, it'll give another 25% up
to the astronomical amount of 200%!!! You would need 4 Artifacts of
Life to reach this amount of health. Above all this, every Artifact of Life
worths 10000 points!
Artifact of Fury - Touching this mystical glowing red artifact will
temporarily turn you into a knife-wielding maniac,changing thy dagger
into an ultimate weapon of destruction. For every Artifact of Fury, you
will get 30 seconds of carnage, when you can finish off ANY enemy
with one dagger thurst!!! If you happen to pick up more Artifacts of
Fury, the lifetime of Knife Fury gets extended! Very useful against
bosses, if you can figure out how to get close enough...
Artifact of Invulnerability - You can easily recognize this artifact. It
emits a slight golden light, alluring you to obtain it. Doing so will make
you totally invulnerable against all possible harms for 30 seconds, even
traps, sludge or mugwort. Picking up multiple artifacts will extend theinvulnerability's 
lifetime of course. Extremely useful when combined
with the Artifact of Fury.
Artifact of Regeneration - This holy artifact cannot be picked up, you
must stand on it to work. While you're taking a rest at this regenerating
artifact, thy soul strength will increase with 2% in every second, up to
the desired 100%. You may use this artifact unlimited times.
Artifact of Salvation - You may find these only if you're playing on
"Top Ace" difficulty level. Grabbing this artifact will grant an extra
savegame to thee. At other skill levels, these artifacts are replaced with
glasses of absinthe.
Doors and keys
The interior design of all buildings - including gothic ones, such as
cathedrals - involve quite a lot of doors, but you might encounter some
doors at outside areas, too. The majority of the doors can be opened
without any problems, others may be locked and require a specific key
to open. There are 5 major types of doors:
- Wooden door with iron support
- Rusty old iron door
- Shiny steel door
- Automatic shiny steel door
- Locked steel door
Apart from locked steel doors, all of these can be opened without any
keys. Automatic steel doors will open by itself without a late when you
approach it, that's because the door opening mechanism is hidden in the
floor right in front of the door. These automatic doors are identical to
ordinary shiny steel doors, so it's impossible to tell from a distance
whether or not that shiny steel door opens automatically or manually.
Automatic doors may hold unpleasant surprises behind'em - perhaps anambush - so always 
ready thy weapon just in case the door would open
to a room full of Acolytes and such. Wooden doors, rusted iron doors
and locked doors will never open automatically.
Opened doors will automatically close in 3-4 seconds, if there is no
obstacle present between the door frames. In other words, if something
is in the door, it shall never close back again, no matter what kind of
door it is. This information might be useful, since it's always safer to
shoot from the doorway rather than going inside or stepping outside and
opening the door over and over again. As long as you stay between the
door frames, it won't close back - the same thing happens if an enemy is
in the doorway. If you want to keep a certain door opened forever,
shoot down someone between the frames, thus blocking the door and
leaving you a quick escapeway open.
Many or your enemies are also capable of (and willing to) open doors,
EVEN locked ones. Of course, not all enemies has the key for particular
locked doors, but sometimes they can open locked doors if you allure
them nearby. Use this at thy own advantage: shoot the enemy between
the door frames, so the locked door will never close back, and you will
not have to look for the key. Note that enemies can't open all locked
doors, and smarter ones also will not leave their safe spot either if they
suspect you're trying to get them one by one!
At special cases, boss enemies will drop a key after they die, so search
their carcass if you can't seem to find the key elsewhere.
There are 4 keys in the game alltogether, which will open 4 different
doors. These are all made of hardened steel, and are impossible to
penetrate with brute force, so you'll need to obtain the corresponding
key for them. One key can be used to all doors with the same lock. At
every new level, you'll need to find new keys though. It would be a
little too dumb to have a same lock for ALL locked doors, don't you
think?Gold key is bright yellow, and opens doors with bright orange locks.
Blood key is dark red, has a skull ornament at the end, and opens doors
with dark red locks.
Bronze key has bright brownish bronze colour, and will open doors with
brownish locks.
Gate key is large, pale rusty brown-coloured, and will open the black
obsidian gates, such as elevator doors.
Not all elevators are locked. Sometimes you don't need an elevator
key to access the next stage. If you don't see a keyhole on the exit
door, you don't need to worry about finding a key for it. However if
you find an elevator key in a secret area, this could very easily mean
there is a secret exit somewhere in the level, which takes you to an
extra level!!!
Locked doors without a keyhole are sealed tight, and are impossible to
open, so don't even bother.
Treasure
Seasons changed, decades and centuries came to pass since the
formation of the first fissure gates, and the Courbée Dominate remained
hermetically sealed from the world, silently growing and expanding in
secrecy. The only proof of their existence was indirect and insignificant -
appearance of mysterious hooded figures, who shortly vanished in thin
air along with certain amounts of provisions, household equipment, raw
material...and gold. Waiting in a state of sleep until the time was right,
having the ability to reach anywhere through the fissures, the CourbéeDominate collected 
a gigantic amount of gold, jewels, gemstones,and
devotional articles, slowly but constantly. This enormous mass of
treasure is hidden well inside the bowels of the falanster away from
prying eyes. Depriving them of their ill-gotten wealth (and lining thy
own pockets during the process) will give smaller-bigger increasements
to your score, as I will tell you shortly. Although none of the treasures
own any obvious magic, extra lives are granted after every 40000,
60000, 75000 or 100000 points, depending on the difficulty level
you're playing, except the fifth difficulty level, where you get a new
savegame possibility after every 100000 points.
Purse of coins - 100 points
Gold chalice - 500 points
Chest of jewels - 1000 points
Gold crucifix - 2500 points
Crown - 5000 pointsEnemy profiles
1: Acolyte
Class: Human
Speed: Very slow
Armor: Very light
Weapon: PCV
Firepower: Light
Referred simply as "initiates" by the Alliance, Acolytes are regular
members of the Courbée Dominate. They wear identical hooded brown
robes with pale golden belt, like executioners. Although their
appearance might be quite menacing, they don't possess any
supernatural powers - each one owns a PCV handgun, this is all they
need to accomplish their duties. Recent reports have stated that the
Courbée Dominate has hundreds of Acolytes, which means, they could
appear simply anywhere. Yet, even these great number of Acolytes can't
compete with you or the Alliance operatives. There might be hundreds
of them - maybe thousands - but their firearm handling skills and
accuracy are mighty low, except if an Acolyte fires his gun directly in
your face. Usually, they mean considerable threat only in large attacking
groups.Acolytes have access to most of the places inside the falanster, they
can open doors, sometimes even locked doors, and if you wound them,
they can benefit from the provisions lying around – they can collect
health restore items, and heal themselves. The only exception is
wormwood, as they don’t seem to know this type of plant.
2: Black Apostle
Class: Human
Speed: Slow
Armor: Medium
Weapon: Suomi machinegun
Firepower: Heavy
Black Apostles are higher-class majesties in Courbée Dominate,
malevolent prayers of evil with only one goal: Serve the Courbée in
every possible way and spread the dogma everywhere. Like the lowerclass Acolytes, 
they also wear hooded robes, however, their robe is
coloured all black. Instead of PCV handguns, all of them has a Suomi
machinegun. Unlike Acolytes, Black Apostles are smart, ruthless, and
very dangerous. Their weapon can riddle you with bullets in matter of
seconds, killing you almost instantly! In addition, the black robe they
wear has an enchantment. This powerful defensive spell HALVES every
damage they take - which means, it takes more than just a couple of
direct hits to bring them to their knees. Should you encounter a bigger
group of Black Apostles unsuspectingly, and you will pay dearly - with
thy life!!!
Black Apostles, however, are similar to Acolytes in the aspect that
they can open most doors, even locked ones, and they can collect
edibles, if wounded – take this into account, and don’t let them snatch
the goodies away from you (the only exception is wormwood).3: Priestess
Class: Human
Speed: Fast
Armor: Medium
Weapon: PCV
Firepower: Medium
As harmless and cute they look, do not be fooled by their seemingly
innocent appearance - the Priestesses are considered the highest class
majesties in the Courbée Dominate's hierarchy structure. Opposing the
Catholic Church in this aspect as well, these women are the real leaders,
whilst Black Apostles, Acolytes, and other Courbée Dominate members
are inferior, and as such, they are the possessors of both conventional
and supernatural powers (it's commonly whispered that their role of
keeping authorities away from this incident was unquestionable). Their
duties tie them to certain places, such as temples, abbeys, shrines, so
they're expected to be common at higher stages of the falanster, almost
never appearing at lower-class areas. Their duty does not involve
patrolling or protection, therefore their sole armament is a PCV pistol
for self-defense purposes. Still, this does not mean you can take them
lightly. Like Black Apostles, their black robe is also infused with
defensive spells, halving every damage they take, and ensuring them
bigger "durability". Never EVER let them live, just because they're
women. When you see one, ready thy weapon and FIRE!
Priestesses also can open doors, and collect provisions if you wound
them, except wormwood.4: Drone
Class: Subhuman
Speed: Slow
Armor: Medium
Weapon: Twin PCV
Firepower: Heavy
These hostile entities have two different names, not just one. The
Courbée Dominate calls them Rokkinoks, and the Alliance named them
as Drones. And what are they? Gather a couple of unbaptisted people,
burn them alive, collect their ashes, and add a pinch of black magic - this
is what you get. A mindless, bipedal abomination created for simple,
small tasks even they could accomplish. Never eating, never sleeping,
never question anything, they're ideal serveants for solving small issues.
Killing someone is simple enough. Despite their sheer dumbness, Drones
are extremely dangerous hostile entities. Can you hear them? Can you
feel them? No. Not having the ability to talk at all, they will not
produce a sound. To spot them before it is too late, you'll need to rely
purely on thy eyes. And just in case this is not enough, Drones are
armed with dual PCV pistols, capable of dealing TWICE the damage as
an Acolyte. Luckily, the spell which keeps them alive is not particulary
strong...a few hits, and they revert back to their original form. Ashes.
Although the Drones are extremely dumb, they managed to learn,
how doors work, so they could open the doors, maybe even locked
ones, but – they can not heal themselves! Since they’re brought to life
by an evil spell, and have no “health” of their own, they totally ignore
all health restoring items. If they can not heal themselves, it is only a
matter of time, when they receive enough hits to break the evil spell,
and make them die…again.5: Suicide Drone
Class: Subhuman
Speed: Very fast
Armor: Very light
Weapon: Satchel
Firepower: Very heavy
Suicide Drones don't bear any firearms. Instead, they have a high
explosive satchel charge strapped on their body - with strict orders
telling them if they spot a stranger, they'll need to use them! Moving
around VERY quickly, and not making a sound makes these Suicide
Drones unimaginibly dangerous. Once they got near the target, they set
off the detonator, killing or severely wounding anyone nearby (this
includes rickety columns and flammable barrels as well). ALWAYS keep
a good distance away from these walking bombs. Suicide Drones do have
a weakness though. Thanks to their lack of logical thinking, they will
immediately stop before setting off the explosives (their so-called
"brain" can focus only on one thing at once), giving you a second to
quickly retreat and shoot him down. Suicide Drones also can't think
about how much havoc they wreak by wandering around in a flock of
enemies, giving you a nice opportunity to cause an overkill by attacking
the Suicide Drone.
Drones are pathetic and stupid beyond belief, but Suicide Drones
unquestionably stand out – they can’t even open doors, and like
standard Drones, they also can’t regain lost health by consuming
provisions.6: Tasoth
Class: Unknown
Speed: None
Armor: Heavy
Weapon: Longbow
Firepower: Very heavy
Although we do have information regarding to the whereabouts of the
Tasoths, it's still inconclusive what are they. Their appearance shows that
Tasoths are gargoyle statues which were brought to life by an evil spell,
though some other people say they are also Drones, dressed in a
resistant armor suit. It's not easy to study something which explodes to
particles upon dying, and kills you in seconds when alive. What we DO
know is that Tasoths are entirely different from every other enemy:
their lower portion forms some kind of pulpit or dais, which makes them
a static enemy - they can't move to anywhere. The upper portion of
theirs is obviously humanoid, wearing a thick armor and a helmet as
well. The behavior of the Tasoths suggests that they're definitively not
human, as they constantly rotate in their pulpit like an automata, with
their wide longbow raised - this is their weapon. Fighting a Tasoth can
be pretty easy sometimes, as if they're turned away from thy direction,
you have the opportunity to blast him with everything you got - but
once he start to rotate back to your direction, you BETTER get out of
his sight...and FAST. Instead of arrows, they shoot extremely powerful
armor-piercing rockets continuously, once they spot an enemy. If you're
happen to be right in view when this happens, say a quick farewell to
this cruel world. Taking down a Tasoth requires heavy firepower, lots of
direct hits, and a good hiding place.Boss enemies
Superdrone
Class: Subhuman
Speed: Medium
Armor: Very heavy
Weapon: Twin bazooka
Firepower: Very heavy
Just in case original Drones are unable to successfully stop you, quite
a few Superdrones were also created solely for the same purpose. These
disgusting life entities has twice of the size of a standard Drone, and
instead of pistols, it bears two bazookas...bad news. Superdrones'
firepower is far enough to send anyone to the graveyard in two shots,
even if you have full soul strength. Lucky for you, the Superdrone is just
as dumb as powerful, so with a little finesse, you have a great chance of
fighting them and survive. First of all, their accuraccy is deplorable for
greater distances, giving you many opportunities to outmaneuver his
rockets. Secondly, since the Superdrone doesn't possess a brain which
would worth mentioning, he doesn't care whether or not there is
something in a way when he sees you - he'll keep attacking regardless he
can actually hit you or not. Hiding behind objects, a grate or a
balustrade will ensure 100% safety for you against Superdrones. His
rockets harmlessly impact on the obstacle in the way, while you can
engage him full time.
Suffice to say that Superdrones are many times stronger than standard
Drones. They can open doors, but even more strange is that they can
consume provisions, like absinthe or Lord's supper, which standard
Drones can't. It is yet unknown how the Superdrone benefits from
consuming foodstuffs, but seeing their superior nature compared to
standard Drones, it is not impossible that these advanced forms can
actually heal themselves by consuming provisions, much like human
beings.Ultradrone
Class: Subhuman
Speed: Medium
Armor: Very heavy
Weapon: Sabrine MK2
Firepower: Heavy
The most powerful and fearsome among all these disgusting creatures
is the Ultradrone. He looks an awful lot alike the Superdrone - he has
the size of a phone booth, and makes no noise when he spots you.
Seemingly, the Ultradrone is weaker, as it has only a Sabrine MK2
instead of twin bazookas. The difference only becomes obvious after you
bring an Ultradrone to his knees. A slightly different evil spell was being
used upon these slobs, meaning that it may stay dead...but it may NOT!
Capable of regenerating himself quite a few times, it will take more
ammunition to eventually break the Ultradrones' spell. You'll soon learn
to fear even their lifeless grotesque face staring at you!
It is needless to state that Ultradrones are capable of everything what
a Superdrone can do - they can open doors, and consume foodstuffs. At
their case, eating and drinking seems to be logical and parallel to their
reanimating behaviour.
Unstoppable
Class: Human
Speed: Medium
Armor: Very heavy
Weapon: Twin Sabrine MK2
Firepower: Heavy
Nomen est omen. These intrepid elite guardians are protecting the inner
falanster against anyone who turned out to be so lucky to survive theSuperdrones 
AND the Ultradrones and somehow gain access to the
higher regions of the fortress complexes. Unstoppables are the mightiest
warriors the Courbée Dominate could offer - their menacing red armor
protects them extremely well, and they are all equipped with modified
Sabrine MK2 assault rifles - not just one, but TWO. The only thing
which could make them stop is death - which, judging from their
abilities, will not come easy for them. They can also open doors,
however, they can not consume any foodstuffs or provisions, because of
the armorsuit, therefore they do not heal themselves.
Scoring
As you previously read, Tristania3D has a built-in scoring system.
Points are awarded for collecting treasure, striking down on the sinful,
and maybe after completing a level. The scoring system is pretty easy to
understand.
Collecting thy score may be very useful, as extra lives is awarded for
certain amounts of score, as it was described earlier. It shall be really
important for you to score as many points as you can, especially if you
are playing on “Top Ace” difficulty level, where you may get a new
save game after every 100000 points! Upon collecting towering amount
of points, you also have a fair chance to earn a place at the High Scores
board.
A death of enemy = points for Einar Moen!!! Once you get rid of a
hostile entity, you shall be awarded with various amounts of points for
thy efforts. It does not matter if you killed them with thy own hands, or
lured them into a trap…for every enemy that dies, you shall get
different amount of points.
♦ 200 points for an Acolyte
♦ 200 points for a Suicide Drone
♦ 500 points for a Black Apostle
♦ 500 points for a Drone♦ 400 points for a Priestess
♦ 800 points for a Tasoth
♦ 1000 – 10000 points for boss enemies (Superdrones, Ultradrones,
Unstoppables etc.) The tougher they are, the more points you will get!
The third method of obtaining score is connected to level completion.
Usually, at the end of the levels, you will get an evaluation of thy
efforts:
- Level completion time
- Kill ratio
- Secret ratio
- Treasure ratio
The level completion time shows, how quick you were, how soon you
have found the exit. If you can beat the par time, that is shown, you
can get various bonus points for thy quickness. This might be pretty
simple on the first few levels, but on later, it will be MUCH wiser to
walk through the death-infested zones carefully and cognizantly rather
than just rushing to the exit “dead on time”.
The kill ratio indicates how great percentage of enemies you’ve
managed to assassinate on thy way through the area. If you’ve killed
every enemy, you shall get 100% percentage, and 10000 bonus points
as well!
The secret ratio shows how many secret areas could you find. Should
you be so skillful to find every secret on the level, you will get 100%
for secret ratio, and another 10000 bonus points!
The treasure ratio works pretty the same – how much valuables could
you collect on the area. Bags of gold, chalice, box of jewels, crucifix,
and crowns. If you could find every little bit of gold in the level, there
goes a third 100% for thy persistence, and another 10000 points! Sowe can say, if 
you receive 30000 bonus points at the end of the level,
you did a perfect run!
Certain levels – such as secret levels, and boss fight levels – does not
have any evaluation at the end, as the ratios do not count against thy
grand total upon completing Tristania3D. Instead of par time-kill-secrettreasure 
ratios, you will get a fixed amount of various extra points at the
end of these special levels. This does NOT mean there are no secrets or
treasure on these special floors, but they will not get added to thy grand
total. Still, you should look for these…it will effect thy score, not to
mention the ammo and soul strength…
Environment & hazards
During your journey through the land of unknown, you will have to
watch out not only for the Courbée Dominate serveants, but the
environment as well. As it is written in the story, the Courbée Dominate
has its very own method and security measurements to remain isolated
from the rest of the world, and keep away any unwanted visitors. The
frequent patrols of Acolytes, Drones, the Unstoppables are just one of
these security methods. Quite frequently, your greatest adversaries may
be the various lethal traps, and hazards you will come across. This
section will give you a brief instruction about the interior design of the
falanster, the various security devices, and traps.
Mugwort
You may easily stumble upon small clumps of mugwort at the great
outdoors just as well as wormwood. Unlike wormwood however,
mugwort is quite poisonous, and will take away 16% of thy soul
strength! Since mugwort is somewhat similar to wormwood, always
examine both before you decide on consuming something which growsin the wild, as 
being poisoned by mugwort wouldn't be pleasant
experience.
Stone coloumns
Wandering around the fortresses and indoor areas, you'll soon come
across dark stone columns, which may block thy way, and may even
seem to hold something behind them. Some of these columns are very
rickety, and may be easily knocked down by gunfire or explosions.
Should you run too low on ammunition, you may prefer to use your
dagger for knocking down these pillars, and see if there is anything lies
behind to collect. If you have secured the area, you might want to
spend some minutes to check out whether or not some of these pillars
can be destroyed, there might be secret areas behind them. Also don't
forget that not all pillars can be knocked down.
Sludge pools
These green spills of disease are commonly seen at storage areas, dark
abandoned corridors, and aqueduct lines. This green sludge is extremely
poisonous and acidic, it can eat through leather and flesh, causing
serious injuries. Avoid these puddles of sludge – strolling through will
heavily decrease thy soul strength.
Explosive barrels
The lack of electricity and the frequent usage of torches requires
many fuel. These petrochemicals are stored in red barrels until the time
of need. Judging from their colour, it's pretty obvious that these oil
drums are highly explosive, and should be kept away from heat,
including gunfire. Walking around them is perfectly safe as long as you
don't shoot them. Once they get hit by bullets or get in contact with
explosions, they shall blow up, killing or heavily damaging anything
nearby - including YOU! Being at 100% soul strength, you can survive
ONE explosion, and not more. For thy own sake, stay away from the oildrums, and always 
keep a safe distance if you intend to blow them up
anyways.
Exploding oil drums are well-known of their destructive property, and
they can be used very frequently as an advantage by alluring enemies
nearby, and then shooting the barrel. The explosion is powerful enough
to tear smaller enemies to shreds, and even seriously damage the bigger
ones too. An exploding oil drum can also smash down rickety columns,
and set off all barrels nearby in a chain reaction, causing a HUGE
explosion. Never forget about this when setting off the fireworks! Oil
drums can be your friends, but also your enemies. Mind that not all oil
drums will explode, as some of them are probably emptied, and will not
participate in causing some havoc. You cannot destroy these.
The second thing why these explosive barrels considered dangerous is
the aftermath of their destruction. Many drums start a huge fire which
can not be extinguished, and will also not go off by itself. Some barrels
will leak dangerous toxic fluids upon exploding, stepping in these
puddles will cause major damage to your health. While you can safely
run through the fire, and will not burn yourself too seriously even in
you stand in there for a few seconds, you will suffer a lot, if you decide
to step onto a toxic spill. Avoid these hazards,if possible.
Tripmines
Another less obvious traps are the tripmines, planted mostly at
outdoor areas, although some floors may have indoor tripmines as well.
When wandering outside under dark skies, keep your eyes extremely
peeled for them. Stepping on these will set off the explosion trigger,
causing GREAT damage on ya. This must not be. Maybe with careful
looking you can track the tripmines down, and thus, you can avoid themonce you spot 
the suspicious-looking lumps on the ground. Never pass
over one, unless you've obtained an Invulnerability Artifact.
Spike traps
At indoor areas, tripmines are usually replaced with spear traps. These
huge needle-sharp spikes are installed in the ceiling and the floor,
moving up and down, stabbing the unfortunate victim to death. And if
that's not enough, the spears are treated with quick killing poison too.
No chance for you to get through these, except if you've found an
Invulnerability icon, avoid these at all costs.
Incinerators
Incinerators – or fireball launchers – are widely used at both indoor
and outdoor areas, and proved to be extremely effective. A system in
the wall constantly fires fireball projectiles in a straight line, creating a
deadly obstacle, which is difficult to pass (or at least it requires good
timing). These wall systems can be easily recognized, and sometimes you
can turn them off with certain wall switches, putting an end to a lifethreathening 
device. However, sometimes the fireball launcher cannot
be turned off, and I can tell you all about it, you'll need quick
movements and finesse to avoid being toasted! Training makes the
master!Switches
These contraptions are also installed in walls – they control many of
the Courbée Dominate’s security systems. They have two different state:
ON and OFF. Although all switches look similar, there are two different
kind of them (apart from the elevator switch of course), controlling
different mechanisms.
The first type of switches controls various pushwalls. Just like secret
doors, it is not marked, which portion of which wall can be moved away
by that switch, but sometimes, it will be quite obvious. These pushwalls
can be only opened by that particular switch, pushing it with bare hands
will not start the mechanism. Once you pull the switch, it will pull or
push that particular wall portion, which the system is assigned to, and
the way to somewhere will open.
Most of the time the consequences of throwing a switch on a wall will
be immediately evident. But sometimes it won’t! If you activate a wall
switch and nothing seems to happen, then perhaps it’s because the
action triggered takes place elsewhere in the level. Who knows, maybe
it’s the first step on your way to finding a Super Secret area?
Always be very cautious, when activating a suspicious-looking switch.
It may seem pretty harmless, but an unknown switch can activate a
lethal trap just as it can open a vault full of treasure!!!
The second type of switches are installed to incinerators. With them,
you can turn certain fireball launchers on, or off.
Fissure gates
These time-space anomalies are one of the Courbée Dominate’s most
advanced magic spells and weapons – even if it does not like a weapon.
This is that otherworldly-looking, squirming red vortex hovering in mid
air you came through at the beginning of the game. Stepping inside
them will instantly teleport you some place else.
Every fissure gate is a one-way trip to a location unknown, which
means, if you want to return to the previous area, you just have tolocate another 
fissure gate, which - probably - leads you back. If you're
unlucky, you'll choose a gate taking you to a death-trap, or some place
where you DEFINITIVELY don't want to be. Enemy reinforcements
from distant areas also coming through these fissure gates, which means,
most of thy adversaries can use them too.
Wormholes
A slight modification of the visible fissure gates – but unlike fissure
gates, these anomalies are completely invisible, so it is absolutely
impossible to tell where a wormhole is – you will only know it is there,
when you already stumbled upon one. The purpose of these wormholes
are quite the same with every other trap. It is not used by none of thy
enemies, the role of wormholes is keeping unwanted visitors away by
teleporting them somewhere. Wormholes are not necessarily dangerous
themselves, but they often teleport you to a trap, hence, they are
considered as traps.[4] Hints and strategies
Friendly fire
Spikes, tripmines, incinerators - getting through these hazards is no
doubt very difficult, if not impossible. Tangled in the web of deathtraps, and being 
encircled by dozens of enemies - it seems no one will be
able to rescue Vibeke...
Wrong!!! Treating these death-traps as mere hazards is just too simple.
Why wouldn't you use these for your own advantage? If a horde of
enemies is after you, just lure them into a nearby spike trap, fireball
stream, or a couple of tripmines - and there. Problem solved. Give them
a taste of their own medicine! It'll save you a LOT of trouble, soul
strength, and will provide you with fresh ammunition too! Possibilities
are limitless; if your firepower is just not enough to handle the odds,
retreat into the safety of a nearby death-trap. Those freaks will blindly
march into their doom, while you laugh at them in your safe hidey hole,
and the score of yours constantly increase. But beware!!! Some hostile
entities may anticipate your movements, and will avoid these traps,
knowing what you're thinking about!
Brains, not brawn!
Having your soul strength at 100%, bearing a SmartGun with a
truckload of ammo is an extremely good thing, try to keep this state up.
However, studying your environment, learning what surrounds you, and
what could you expect proved to be much more effective. You may win
battles with brute force, but sooner or later you shall find yourself in a
situation, where weapons and full health seem to be insufficient. This is
when you must use your most powerful and most underestimated
weapon: your own brain.If you come across a puzzle which does not seem to make any 
sense,
try harder. Every button, every lever has its own effect. Obviously,
none of the logical riddles and puzzles are frustatingly difficult, but if
you had a hard day behind you, and you keep failing to cross that big
chamber with lots of enemies, try something else. If the regular tactics
fail, look around a little. Maybe that switch on the wall shall activate a
fireball launcher, and you can cross the walkway without fear?
One thing is sure: Every sticky situation has its own solution. Just use
thy brain, create some plans, and you will figure it out sooner than you
think!
Allure of darkness
If there is only one entrance to a certain area, try to lure the guards
to come out to you. This will make it easy to pick them off one by one.
However, don’t expect this tactic to always work. Some guards are
clever enough to use the same strategy and will wait for you to come in
to them!
Stack up supplies!
Apart from the soul strength, and protection I just mentioned, you
will also need to worry about the ammunition. Should you run out of
ammo, and stronger enemies will finish you off in matter of seconds,
even if you own Knife Fury. Lucky for you, many locations hold supplies
for you...sometimes a whole truckload of supply, much more than you
could carry. Do not waste them! If you cannot pick up a crate of
ammunition, or a glass of absinthe, just leave it there, memorize its
location, and proceed with your task. Trust me, if you carelessly fall in a
death-trap, or the exit chamber is stuffed with enemies, you will
REALLY need that ammo crate or glass of absinthe!
Keep in mind that thy soul strength will not just recharge between
two levels all by itself! In other words: if you take the exit with 12%soul strength, 
you shall begin the next level with 12% soul strength!
And who knows - maybe there will be no restoring opportunity in sight!
Perhaps a quick sweep through the emptied level could solve this
problem - obtain the supplies you left behind, and your chances of
survival will increase astronomically!
But that room was empty!
Many areas are subjects to roaming enemy patrols, and if initiates are
being attacked in a certain area then reinforcements could be sent in to
investigate. So never assume that just because you’ve cleared an area of
enemies that it will stay that way. A number of thy enemies may be used
to seeing death and thus may be stupid enough to dismiss a dead
comrade’s body, thinking that a faulty Suicide Drone mishap happened
there, but some enemies patrolling through areas you’ve already visited
will notice the carnage you’ve wreaked on their buddies and will come
looking for you, no matter where you are! There might be also
reinforcements pouring through fissure gates to the location, where you
are. In short, learn to watch thy back if you wish to stay alive.
Find the going too tough?
There is a hidden cheat installed in the game in case you're in a
hopeless situation. Pressing the H A C keys simultaneously will
immediately boost your health to 100%, and increase your ammunition
to the maximum for all guns. But before you'd get too fulfilled with
joy, let me tell you that this cheat will NOT give you backpack, guns, or
keys! Only soul strength, and ammunition. If you can't find the gold key
for the locked door, this cheat will not help you...at all.
Also take into account that cheating through the game has its own
punishment. Enabling this cheat will make your score go down to zero,
and will stay that way, no matter what. If you cheat, you cannot get a
high score, or any benefits coming with earning high score. You mayrestore your scoring 
ability by loading a previously saved game BEFORE
you applied the cheat, or starting a new game.
At the fifth – “Top Ace” – skill level, this cheat shall not activate.
[5] Troubleshooting
I wish I could say Tristania3D is free of any errors and glitches. The
reality is, however, Tristania3D also has a small collection of bugs which
could not be tracked, or its correction method is yet unknown. None of
these glitches are particulary severe, nor will they smash your operating
system, but in rare cases, they may disturb gameplay, and interfere with
your progress, therefore I need to mention a few things about them.
Tristania3D abruptly freezes during gameplay or crashes with "Divide
error"
It is unknown what causes this error, and it's extremely rare indeed -
mostly you will meet this happening after long, extensive hours of
gameplay with a lot of saving and reloading. Most likely this error is
caused by some "memory leak" deep inside the core. We could not
determine what causes the crash exactly, but it's commonly whispered
that some data fragments are starting to leak out of the player's data,
eventually reaching critical mass, and crashing the game. Notably, this
event never happens when Tristania3D is ran directly under Windows
XP, so it seems the DosBox emulator doesn't like something the game
would like to execute.
Another possible reason is that the DosBox emulator configuration is
not met with Tristania3D's system requirements. It's HIGHLY
recommended that you use the DOSBOX.CONF file included with the
game, since it is set to the requirements of the game, those are the failproof configurations. 
All you need to do is overwrite the oldDOSBOX.CONF file with the included one after 
installing DosBox. If
the DosBox configuration is not correct for Tristania3D, the movement
will be choppy, and Tristania3D will crash quite frequently. Just
overwrite the DOSBOX.CONF file with the one I put in the game
folder, and this should fix the problem.
Tristania3D will not start under Windows Vista
This is a major error in Windows Vista - it's not Tristania3D's fault.
Windows Vista is one of the worst operating systems in the known
universe, it can't run the great majority of the programs, Tristania3D is
just one of them. If you have Windows Vista, you should install DosBox
emulator or Microsoft Virtual PC to run Tristania3D. Or better, get rid
of Windows Vista for all eternity - I say it, as a computer professional.
Tristania3D will not start under Windows 7
Similar to the problem I mentioned earlier. Windows 7 is far from being
perfect (although it's unquestionably better than Windows Vista), but it
can run Tristania3D flawlessy, if you install one of the emulators.
DosBox or Microsoft Virtual Machine - your choice.
Tristania3D has no music and certain sounds are missing under Windows
XP
Tristania3D uses an own audio device which is not clearly recognized by
Windows XP. Windows XP can run Tristania3D, but with only these
restrictions. If you run Tristania3D using the emulator, this problem will
never appear (Tristania3D uses digitized sound, but the music is from its
own sound source, and therefore, Windows XP can't use it).Tristania3D crashes at 
level 24
This error have been corrected, and should not appear at all. It was
caused by a malfunctioning Sabrine MK3 and two Superdrones outside
the falanster's courtyard. Once I got rid of them, the game was working
fine.
Tristania3D's sounds get messed up at level 11, and the game freezes at
quitting
This error only happens, if you're running Tristania3D from directly
under Windows XP, not using an emulator. It is yet unknown, what
causes this error, but it messes up something at the sounds structure,
and will eventually crash the program upon quitting. If you meet this
error, just save the game, quit with Alt+Enter, and externally close the
program. Upon restarting, Tristania3D should work just fine.
Enemies display the wrong graphics when killed
Also a quite mysterious glitch - and also a very minor glitch. Drones and
Priestesses could show weird graphics upon killing, if you kill them
unalerted with Knife Fury power. I don't have the slightest idea about
why they turn into weird glitched graphics when you stab them to death
unalerted, but it happens when it happens.
Another occassion is, when Suicide Drones are not killed right away - it
happens with the Suomi machinegun. Since the sole shots of the Suomi
are weaker than PCV shots, at very rare occassions, they won't kill the
Suicide Drone, only wound it. However, Suicide Drones doesn't have
any "wounded state", so they'll show the wounded state of an Acolyte.
Very minor glitch.As for Ultradrones, they also can show weird graphics, when they 
step
onto a tripmine and then, respawn. This particular glitch is caused by an
exception, since Ultradrones were not set to walk on tripmines. So when
it happens and they respawn, they will show distored graphics. If these
minor bugs really disturb you, just save and reload the game, and it will
work fine.
Spear traps disappear after many enemies walk on it
This is not a bug, it's a feature of realism. Sooner or later, spear traps
will "overload" and break, thanks to the many corpses, you ought to be
ready for this when you lure the bad guys into "used" spear traps.
Suicide Drones can wreck spear traps quite soon. Shiny new spear traps
will work just fine, used ones will become out of gear much easier.
My bazooka will not fire anything
Also not a bug. Heavy weapons often tend to get jammed, especially if
they are frequently used, so you should never rely your life on one
armor-piercing rocket - your bazooka can get jammed, or perhaps the
ammunition you've picked up was a fake/blank shot. As a compensation,
Tasoths and Superdrones could also have malfunctioning weapons.
Rockets seem to disappear when flying through doors
They don't disappear, only the image - so don't you worry. Doors was
set to stay open once a rocket flies through them, somehow this causes
the image of the rocket to disappear. This does not happen with the
enemy's launched rockets.Rockets pass through boss enemies
This only happens with enemy rockets, not yours. Superdrones' and
Tasoths' weapons are slightly different - they are more powerful, so they
can blast a hole through Ultradrones, who are made of ashes, and
Unstoppables, who have very thin armor at their back (a rocket into the
Unstoppables' back can kill them instantly). We could make their rockets
explode upon colliding with a body, but in this case, they would be
much more resistant to rockets, so we decided that let the enemy
rockets pass through their body, causing them more severe wounds.
Enemies are dying for no reason
Also not necessarily a bug. If you hear explosions and death screams in
the background, it usually means Twirl and his friends are in the area,
and are fighting the Courbée Dominate's flunkies, and this is what you
hear. They might be also dying from their cleverly set up traps, while
rushing towards you. Every enemy death has its own reason...
At early stages of development, this glitch - called Sudden Death
Syndrome - was quite frequent, particulary at outdoor areas. The reason
was the great number of alerted enemies. If too many enemies were
alerted, some of them died suddenly, often with incorrect graphics. This
has been fixed, so no more Sudden Death Syndrome.
Objects and enemies start to blink
This very minor glitch only happens, when there are many objects and
corpses are in Einar's field of vision, and the program is unable to draw
all of them. Supposedly, this error was corrected, but if it happens, just
change position, and you'll be fine.My gun freezes at shooting state
Don't worry, only the graphics freeze, not the gun. It happens,when
you teleport with your weapons blasting. Just fire a shot, and it'll go
away.
Tristania3D crashes with "Too many static objects!" error message
Ahh, yeeeees, the world-infamous "Too many static objects!" error,
everyone's favourite. How I LOVED this error (sarcasm alert!)...this
particular error is called the "511 error". It was corrected alright, and
it's only known to happen at level "Greed", where if you destroy too
many barrels, they might leave too many toxic sludge pools. 511 is the
maximum amount for objects on a level, and if this limit is exceeded,
the 511 error will happen. You should not meet this error at all, but if
you do, don't blow too many barrels up.
Tristania3D crashes with "PM25" error message
Another "phantom error" - we know absolutely nothing about what
causes this, and why. My experience tells that this is a sort of "joker
error", when the program can't figure out any good reason, why should
it crash, but it wants to crash just to give me headache, it does - with
this PM25 error message. Very annoying, but it also shouldn't happen
at all.
The only known occassion for PM25 error was the fissure gate's
chamber with the Unstoppables and Ultradrones, but I suppose it was
only a compile error with our test program. Once we re-compiled the
game, the PM25 error was gone. If it happens anyway, just restart the
game, and the PM25 error should be gone.Tristania3D behaves odd
Not sure, but it might have been a compile error, which was very rare
even in the early stages of the game development, and (I hope) it's
completely gone now. Upon dying, or blowing up an explosive barrel,
the game started to do mindless things...like I couldn't switch weapons,
the level restarted, Suicide Drones became invulnerable and stuff like
this. It was a really undefinable error, but it should be gone now. If not,
just restart the game, and it should work fine.
Walls become gray stonewalls
This kind of glitch was also present in the old Wolf3D engine, and could
not corrected, because no one knew what triggers it. It happens very
rarely, mostly at large and complex levels, with many enemies, and many
fierce action. It is a very small and harmless bug, except when switches
turn into gray stonewalls. If this bug really bothers you, just restart the
game, and then it will be back to normal. We could make the levels
smaller, but we really did not want to sacrifice so much hard work, and
so many great plans regarding the levels just to avoid a bug, which is
extremely rare anyways.
[6] Frequently asked questions
Question: Why is Tristania3D so "retro" and "oldschool", why didn't
you create a modern game instead of this pixelized, twenty-year old
obsolete one?
Answer: This question is my personal favourite - heard at least a billion
times so far. The answer for this is pretty simple indeed - because
creating this game under a fully modern environment is simply
IMPOSSIBLE. I have several very good reasons why we created
Tristania3D to be so old and obsolete, let me explain to you.1) First of all, every 
coin has two sides. I'm very well aware that
Tristania3D's technology level is at least twenty years behind today's
standard, however...the more advanced the game engine is, the more
problems it will raise, the bigger its size will be. Take a fully modern and
up-to-date game as an example - its size is so gigantic that it requires a
DVD, perhaps even more than one DVD. Downloading such great
amounts of data requires significant time, even with a decent internet
connection. Originated from the size, a modern game engine consists
millions of program parts (code lines). Now, suppose that there is a
malfunction somewhere within this enormous data structure, which will
either cause the game to crash, or will not run at all. To fix this error,
the programmers must browse through the ENTIRE program structure
to find that one particular module which isn't working - this could take
months, even whole years. And since we're talking about a very
advanced program here with millions of program parts, there may be
more than one malfunctioning or errorneous modules inside, which
means, the programmers must repeat this treasure hunt ALL OVER
again if something fails to work. It's like searching a pin in millions of
haystacks. No, thank you. Not that we're lazy, we just don't want to do
this in the rest of our lives. The second half of this problem is that a
fully modern program requires SERIOUS programming knowledge, 3D
modelling, installing physics and all the features you can see in a modern
game. This prodecure takes years even for an experienced programmer,
and we're already years late with the development of Tristania3D.
2) The first thing the game creator needs is the source code. I wouldn't
want to get too technical here, so I just tell that the source code is the
heart of the program - it defines the systematics and the mechanisms of
the game in a "simplified" text form. If you want to add a new feature
to the game - such as new enemies, new weapons, new songs, timed
levels etc. - you can't just tell the program to behave that way. You
need to implement these changes into the source code, THEN compile
the source code to a program. Get the picture? Now then...there is
absolutely no possibility of downloading or purchasing the source code
for these fully modern and advanced games (such as Doom 3, Half-lifeseries), and 
also no chance for stealing it. Creating a new source code
from the start would require tremendous amounts of programming
knowledge, which we don't have. EoD engine is, however, completely
free, a LOT easier to edit, and has several nice features, which are quite
admirable and satisfactory for a freely downloadable fan made game.
3) These highly advanced and up-to-date game engines are NOT
freeware. Therefore, even if we would somehow get hold of their
source codes, the original authors would charge us for money because
we're using their property (and charge YOU for money as well!). This is
something which we must avoid at all costs.
4) Tristania is a gothic band, so it's best to create a game about them
under an old game engine. It seems so fitting, don't you think?
Well, folks,there you have it. I certainly hope these reasons are good
enough for you. Besides, the game engine is not everything. I've seen
modern and advanced games from around 2010 which are horrible and
unplayable as can be. If you don't believe me, do a search for Patriots:
A Nation under fire, Airborne Hero, Power of Destruction, Dark
Vampires, Chronicles of the Vampire, or Velocity Prologue.
Question: Why about Tristania?
Answer: This game serves as a memento for Vibeke Stene, the woman
with the most beautiful voice, who left the band years ago...and we miss
her very much. Tristania3D will ensure that nobody will EVER forget
her, and her essential role in this band. Besides, Tristania is one of my
favourites.
Question: Why did you choose Einar Moen, and why couldn't I select
another character?Answer: When we started to design Tristania3D here at the Lambda

Team headquarters, we all agreed about Einar Moen would be perfect as
the main character of the game, not just for graphical reasons, but many
forum members on the Tristania Message Board have agreed in that
Einar Moen should be the main character. About the other Tristania
members...well, EoD game engine doesn't support multiple players or
player selection. Trust us, we tried the concept of choosing a band
member, and each one would have their own unique characteristics, but
this required too many resources, and reserved too much memory (not
to mention it'd require own images and scenes for every band member).
The point is, every program has limits. We can't just stuff it with
everything in mind, a program is not a bottomless hole. Sooner or later
the program will reach a point where it consumes more memory than it
actually has - this leads to the world-famous "Abnormal program
termination" error, when the game crashes right after the start
displaying this message, showing that we exceeded the memory limit
available. It doesn't matter if our machine has 100 GB RAM memory -
the game can only handle the amount which was programmed inside it
through the source code. And in 1992, when this source code was
composed, the maximum memory available for every personal computer
was around 4 MB RAM. See how it works?
Question: Why didn't you program Tristania3D under Windows, so we
wouldn't need an emulator?
Answer: The source code of Tristania3D is originated back to 1992,
when no Windows were in sight. We aren't Windows programmers, we
did what we could, but if the source code won't recognize Windows as
an operating system, we're left with DOS. Besides, Tristania3D works
under Windows XP without an emulator, but in this case, no music can
be heard, and certain sounds will be also missing. As for Windows Vista
or Windows 7, I'd recommend you to uninstall them immediately, as
both of these systems are gigantic piles of turd.We also tried to ask MCS (the writer 
of the EoD engine) for the source
code, so we could create a Windows port out of it, but MCS did not
give it to us. A million thanks…
Question: What took you so long to create this game?
Answer: We had a lot of disagreements about how should we create the
game. We didn't have the EoD engine for years. First, we tried to write
our own source code, and as you can expect, it didn't work at all. Then,
one of our friends had an idea developing Tristania3D under Doom
environment. The problem was, we didn't have the Doom source code
either, therefore many of the features would be missing from the game -
not to mention that working under Doom engine is a LOT harder in
every aspect. We only have the EoD engine for 2 years, and since then,
we're constantly working on it. Seeing the fact that this game will be
developed by mostly one man, it will be a decent one.
Question: Why do the songs sound so distorted and poor?
Answer: The EoD engine only recognizes IMF files. This gave us lots of
work,as we needed to convert the MIDI files into IMF songs, and test
them countless times whether or not their quality is acceptable.
Moreover, only 8 notes can be played simultaneously, which sometimes
resulted in tune losses and "phantom notes", when the game plays a
note which is actually not there. I'd be most happy with an MP3
support, or at least MIDI support, but we had to keep the memory limit
in mind. Inserting digital song files would eat all game memory for
breakfast and "Abnormal program termination" would occur.Question: Why are the songs 
so short?
Answer: The maximum song size limit is 64 kilobytes for each song. I
don't really know what determines the size of the song...sometimes a
song can last more than 3 minutes and is still under 64 kilobytes, whilst
other songs will knock down the roof after 1 minute or even sooner.
There was no possibility for this game to implant songs whose size is
larger than 64 kilobytes. If we do it anyways, the song simply breaks
when the 64th kilobyte is read, and starts over.
Question: If this game is about Tristania, why didn't you use more of
their songs?
Answer: I had only 7 Tristania MIDI files. The main problem is, Tristania
MP3 files are extremely difficult to convert into a good quality MIDI.
Besides, there is the 64K limit I was talking about. I thought it would be
the best option to cut these MIDI files in two, so you can enjoy the
missing song parts at other levels as well.
Question: What is this "Courbée Dominate" exactly?
Answer: Very little is known about the Courbée Dominate, but from
what the Annihilation Taskforce revealed, this is some kind of secret
congregation or society of cultists, rather than religious fanatics. Its
origin is yet unknown, although their name suggests French roots, or the
title of their fortress - "falanster". However, the Courbée Dominate
initiates use Latin words to different sectors or districts, and it is also
suggested that they speak Latin among themselves, so it is pretty hard to
decide where is this secret society is originated from.
Seeing that the Courbée Dominate is clearly hostile against the darkgothic subculture, 
it is also suggested that it may be originated from
Philip IV of France, the king who single-handedly devastated the
Templar knights' union - but only if we accept the theory that the darkgothic subculture 
is a descendant of the extinct templar knights. There is
no solid proof for any of these theories.Question: If the Courbée Dominate is after 
dark-goths, why did they
kidnap Vibeke? Wouldn't anyone else do it?
Answer: It is hard to answer, as none of us know about the hierarchy,
the motivations and the system of Courbée Dominate. It is believed,
however, that Vibeke conceals supernatural powers, which she does not
know about, but the Courbée Dominate rulers somehow sniffed it out.
Their goal may be to conquer that dark-gothic reality the true goths
know about, or perhaps to be able to manifest and use those special
artifacts, which would make any single person unstoppable and
immortal. For this, they need a true goth with a hidden enchantment.
Since we don't have the grimorie the Courbée Dominate uses, we can't
make any direct statements, but it is clear that they need Vibeke,
because some conditions of certain spells could not met with anyone
else. Anyways, if this game is about Tristania and Vibeke Stene, who else
could be the unfortunate victim?
Question: Why don't the Courbée Dominate modernize the falanster
with water pipe system, electricity and such?
Answer: The Courbée Dominate could only prevail through the past
decades by isolating itself from the rest of the world. Having a modern
water system, power lines, telecommunication systems and computers
would attract too much attention on them, not to mention the huge
numbers of outsiders, who would work inside the falanster. It is safer
not to be dependant from the state (it is also cheaper).
Question: If the Courbée Dominate does not use power lines, how can
the elevators and the subway lights work?Answer: Yes, well...many of the fans consider 
this as a major plothole,
but the explaination is pretty simple. There are small, portable power
generators, which are capable of generating electricity from fuel. This
energy is sufficient to power elevators, and small basement lights, and
the Courbée Dominate has plenty of fuel (barrels of gasoline are easy to
steal through fissure gates). In case of power outage, elevators can still
work by man-operated cranes, or smaller-bigger weights pushed and
pulled at the shafts.
Question: So the Courbée Dominate consists satanists?
Answer: This was never confirmed in the story, or during the events.
The Courbée Dominate is gathered around a demonic entity named
Baphomet (this may also suggest that the Courbée Dominate was
founded by Philip IV of France, as he was the one who accused the
templar knights by worshipping Baphomet, thus, Philip KNEW about
Baphomet). Opinions differ whether Baphomet is part of Hell's (and
Satan's) hierarchy or not.
Question: What's up with those "Drones" or "Rokkinoks"?
Answer: If you read the story, it should all make sense to you. Do not
confuse them with zombies. Zombies are rotten corpses brought back
alive. The Rokkinoks are different. They are walking ash piles morphed
into a humanoid shape by an evil spell. This gave a lot more possibilites
to the Courbée Dominate than just resurrecting the dead. Zombies
proved to be unworthy fighters, whilst Rokkinoks are far more lethal -
they're dumb, yet quick, agile, and absolutely silent.
Question: If this game supposed to be a gothic-themed or medievalthemed game, why 
did you put firearms in it?Answer: First of all, swordfights would be pretty dumb 
in a 3D shooter
game. This gamestyle might look awesome and spectacular in a sidescroller or a third 
person adventure game (Prince of Persia, World of
Warcraft), but in a first person view, a melee attack-based game simply
wouldn't be the same. Secondly, there is only one attack method for
Einar Moen, so even if we would make Tristania3D without any guns,
there could be only type of attack (for each weapon). And thirdly, the
attacking method of the enemies is hard coded inside the program.
Namely, most of them must use a distance weapon which produces
sound (except the Suicide Drones). And since all of them need to drop
ammunition when killed, we were also unable to create enemies who are
performing magic attacks, as they couldn't drop ammo when killed.
Besides, there are archers in the game. If you really want to get
medieval, use your dagger only.
Question: Where are the secret doors in the game?
Answer: I don't want to spoil all the fun for you, therefore I will not
write a full detailed secrets guide. Although I CAN help you finding
them. Most secret doors are hidden at solid, flat walls, others are hidden
behind ornamented walls. Use your pure logic when looking for secrets!
Never look for secret pushwalls at door frames, windows, and naturemade walls (rockpiles, 
earth wall). There will be, however, secret doors
at diagonal "staircase-walled" corridors, if you seek the right spot of the
particular wall to find the hidden trigger. Also note that certain
previously activated pushwalls can be pushed again, maybe from
different directions.
Question: Why didn't you put a level map feature inside the game?
Answer: Most unfortunately, the EoD game engine doesn't have a "level
map" function implemented inside (mainly because the ancestor of this
engine didn't had a programmed-in map feature either). Maybe wecould have come up 
with something, but we were already years behind
the schelude, I wouldn't want to delay the development of Tristania3D
any further just because this game doesn't have a map feature. Anyways,
let's get realistic - Einar Moen would't have the time to draw a map
while lurking, fighting the Courbée Dominate, he has to find Vibeke,
before it is too late. Last, but not least, there are certain levels, whose
concept would be screwed if you had a map, and therefore you could
view the entire area with just one button push - you'll see these special
levels VERY soon.
Question: Why can't I get kill-secret-treasure evaluation at the end of
boss levels/secret levels?
Answer: That's because you don't need to. The kill ratio, secret ratio
and treasure ratio doesn't count towards your grand total at these
special levels. However, it's STILL highly recommeded for you to look
for hidden areas at special levels, as it will still effect your score and
your progress.
Question: How come that switch controlled pushwalls will not slide back
if I pull the switch again?
Answer: The answer here is more technical, rather than supernatural.
The switch control is zone-related, not wall-related. In short, after the
switch is pulled, the program checks whether or not there's a wall at
that very zone where the pushwall trigger is placed. If there is one, it'll
be moved to a particular direction. After this, the zone with the
pushwall trigger becomes empty. Once a switch controlled pushwall gets
moved away, it can't be returned to its original location (or any other
location for that matter) unless there is a second switch which inspects
the zone where the moved wall arrived.Question: Why can't I get 100% secret ratio, 
even if I find every secret
in the level?
Answer: Are you REALLY that sure you found ALL of them? If I were
you, I would double-check it before giving up. Keep in mind that you'll
ONLY get credit for a secret area (and percentage), if you receive a
message on the top of the screen, not for finding pushwalls. At the
great outdoors, there may not be any pushwalls, yet, secret areas still
exist. You should have the "messages" feature turned on (F11 button).
There is also a VERY slight chance of missing the "secret trigger". This
may occur,when a secret area has a wide entrance, and you accidentally
slip past the secret trigger. To avoid this, make sure you surround the
entrance of the hidden area pretty well (this doesn't mean you should
get shot by doing this).
Question: Why can't I see the remaining time of my invulnerability and
Knife fury?
Answer: You might have turned the "messages" feature off by pressing
the F11 key. Press it again, so it will show the timer as it should. The
factory settings include the messages turned on, so as long as you don't
push the F11 button accidentally, you will be fine.
Question: How come that sometimes, I need 20-25 shots to kill an
enemy, and some other times, it dies after 3 shots?
Answer: Hits are heavily influenced by distance and weapon type.
Shooting from short ranges will cause much greater damage than just
blindly blasting from the other end of the corridor. The bigger the
distance is, the more inaccurate your shots will be (this works vice versa
of course). Note that certain weapons - Sabrine MK3 and SmartGun -
has wide gunfire spread, and therefore a few misguided bullets will findtheir target, 
whilst precision weapons, such as the PCV or the Stealth
rifle will require you to aim perfectly.
Question: Couldn't you implement a crosshair in Tristania3D?
Answer: Well, yes and no. We COULD implement a crosshair, but we
couldn't render a button for it to make it go away. Which means, that
annoying crosshair would stick around at the center of the screen
throughout the whole game. It might seem useful first, but later, it'll
just annoy you and turn your attention away from the beautiful level
design and awesome graphics we made (har har har!). We thought it'll
be better to leave the crosshair out. Besides, you will not have a
crosshair hovering in mid-air in front of you, if you grab a pistol or an
assault rifle!
Question: Why can't I get a sniper scope to my rifle?
Answer: EoD engine doesn't have a "secondary" function for weapons
(e.g. there is no secondary fire for weapons), which have prevented us
from creating a zoom effect for the guns...or a sniper scope for that
matter. Also, most of the levels are taking place inside the falanster with
shorter (relatively) distances, which makes the sniper scope abundant.
Question: What determines the behavior of the Ultradrones?
Answer: It's TOTALLY randomized whether or not an Ultradrone shall
rise from its ashes, and continues its rampage on you. It's not influenced
by the chosen skill level either, so even if you pick the mildest skill level,
Ultradrones can still respawn countless times.Question: What determines the behavior 
of the explosive barrels?
Answer: Unlike Ultradrones, explosive barrels work differently. Mainly,
there are 3 types of them: Exploding barrel, Exploding & flaming
barrel, and empty barrel. However, it's totally randomized whether or
not the first two will leave a puddle of sludge. Empty barrels will not be
changed at all however - they will remain empty in every possible case.
Question: Why don't boss enemies stagger when they get hit?
Answer: There are multiple answers for this question. The technical
answer is: because there aren't any "wounded" state for the boss
enemies, only walking, attacking, and dying (they're not programmed to
tatter when they receive a hit). Other reasons include utter toughness,
magical protection, and the lack of feeling the pain (for Drones and
ghosts).
Question: How can Einar Moen run so quickly?
Answer: Didn't you read the story? He needs to hurry!
Question: How can Einar Moen carry so many treasures?
Answer: Many people have asked this question, mostly about treasure,
as your treasure holding capacity is not influenced by your ammunition
carrying capacity. Well, the only explaination is when Einar Moen steps
on some treasure, an inter-dimensional transmitter portal opens between
space and time (this causes the "blinking sound"), and the treasures
travel through the entire universe to finally arrive to the mysterious
Sanctuary of Stolen Goods! So easy that is.Question: How come Twirl doesn't send 
more radio-communication
messages to Einar Moen?
Answer: Since the Alliance's task is to draw the attention away from
Einar Moen, they're under heavy fire most of the time, and don't have
the time for babbling. I would also like to add that the the fissure gates
have a tendency of creating heavy interference around themselves - this
is the main reason why don't the Courbée Dominate use radios or
mobile phones, and thus, alerting the entire falanster.
Question: If these fissure gates "create heavy interference" around, how
could Einar Moen still transmit radio messages to the Alliance team, and
vice versa?
Answer: The fissure gates are quite numerous, but this doesn't
automatically mean they're everywhere. Suppose there is an imaginary
line between Einar Moen's transmitter and Twirl's receiver. If there is
not fissure gate anywhere near this line, the message comes through
without problems. I bet Twirl sent more messages to Einar Moen when
he stumbled upon fissure gates with his team, but he was not aware that
there are fissure gates around, which have blocked the radio signals.
Question: How can Einar Moen open doors if he holds his gun with
both hands?
Answer: Who said Einar Moen doesn't possess magic powers??? ;D
Question: If a level has multiple exits, and none of them is a secret exit,
which one should I take?
Answer: Your choice.Question: How come I can spend 99 hours at a level, and Vibeke 
is still
alive?
Answer: The fissure gates distort time as well as reality, y'know...
Question: Is there a difference between "normal" secret and super
secret area?
Answer: Technically no.
Question: Why aren't any curved/diagonal walls in the game?
Answer: I was kicked out of secondary school, and rectangle was the
only geometrical shape I could remember. ;) Engine restrictions, I'm
afraid.
Question: How come enemies are immune to mugwort and sludge?
Answer: They ignore all wild grown plants, wormwood as well, not just
mugwort. As for the poisonous sludge, both your enemies and the
sludge are evil, thus they are friends.
Question: Why don't Tasoths and Superdrones kill each other?
Answer: It's part of their protective spell. Enemies using the same
weaponry are invulnerable for their own projectiles.Question: Why won't enemies open 
up secret doors?
Answer: If you spy carefully, you will notice some "pre-opened" secret
doors during the levels, which were obviously opened by Courbée
Dominate members (or perhaps Alliance members). Otherwise, they
don't open any secret doors because they don't need to. And of course,
not all Courbée Dominate members know about every secret on every
level...
Question: Why can't I interrogate enemies?
Answer: They know very well that you or they will die during a
firefight, why would they divulge any information to you?
Question: Why won't the enemies use the weapons (Sabrine MK3,
SmartGun etc.) against me instead of their pathetic pistols?
Answer: Perhaps they don't know how to handle them, or they're too
busy fighting you off, and don't want to grab those weapons. Or
perhaps because they only contain very tiny amount of ammo.
Question: The help document states that the Stealth rifle uses 14mm
ammunition, so its firepower should be stronger than the SmartGun's.
How come I can't kill Tasoths and boss enemies with it then?
Answer: Simple. Sure the Steatlh rifle may alltogether be stronger than
the SmartGun, but you can only carry 36 bullets maximum (if you have
a backpack), and the Stealth rifle is not a rapid fire weapon either. Thus,
while sole shots are technically stronger than the SmartGun's, 36 bullets
are mighty few to final a boss enemy, although you can kill Tasoths far
more easily.Question: Why are the Priestess' hands gray?
Answer: Gloves.
Question: How can there be tripmines under the floor at indoor levels?
Answer: It's really not that hard to poke a hole in the floor, hide a
tripmine, and bury it with the rubble, except maybe if the floor would
be made of steel or diamond. But otherwise, it's plausible, especially if
the floor is made of wood or has carpet covering.
Question: Why can't I pick up the killed boss enemies' weapons?
Answer: During the fight, they may be damaged, and became unusable.
Or perhaps because you're already stuffed with weapons, and those are
too heavy to carry. Or perhaps because you detest to use something
which was used against you.
Question: How come that enemies will never run out of ammunition?
Answer: Ever heard of the purse, which never ran out of gold coins?
They might have some black magic-effected sidebag or backbag which
never runs out of bullets. Unfortunately, the spell breaks when the
enemy dies.
Question: Why can't I pick up ammunition from dead boss enemies?
Answer: By the time you kill them, they run out of ammo.
Question: Why don't the Courbée Dominate just put a curse on Einar
Moen to kill him instantly instead of sacrificing hundreds of initiates?Answer: I'm 
no expert in magicks, but from what I heard, you can't just
walk around cursing people everywhere. Curses have a nasty habit to
reverse back on the curser, and even if they don't, there are serious side
effects of putting a maleficium on someone. On top of that, every curse
requires preparation, spiritual connection and a strict ritual. While
smaller magicks can be applied any time, stronger ones, such as curses
require a specific date and time. Maybe these conditions didn't meet for
them to put a curse on Einar Moen. Also don't forget that he has the
Holy Bible, and he is picking up quite a few crucifixes on his journey.
Question: After Einar Moen finds the falanster, why doesn't he just
alert the police?
Answer:
- Because he is disappointed and disgusted by the incompetency he came
across with.
- Secondly, there were several outlaws among the Alliance operatives, so
technically, if Einar phones up the cops, he would betray his friends with
this.
- Telephones bound to fail near fissure gates.
- Einar knew that even if the police could rescue Vibeke, this case would
turn into a global uproar, perhaps a new world war. With the secret of
the fissure gates solved, the unworthy may enter the goths' reality,
expose and colonize it. Einar agreed with the Alliance that no outsiders
should be involved.
Question: Why do the enemies walk into the spear traps when they
clearly see it's there?
Answer: They have too much confidence in their protective spell I
assume. As for Drones and Unstoppables, they don't know the meaningof the word "fear". 
Of course, many of the initiates are smart enough
not to fall into their own traps...
Question: How can the enemies pick up the holy water vials? Wouldn't
it kill them?
Answer: Holy water would only kill vampires and fiends, human beings
are uneffected, it's just water to them. Drones ignore food and water.
As for Superdrones and Ultradrones, it'd take a LOT more than just a
few drops of holy water to finish them off!
Question: If I can break down stone coloumns, why can't I break
windows?
Answer: Suppose you could break the windows. And how would you
squeeze yourself through the grate? It would've been pointless, so we
ditched the idea of breakable windows.
Question: How can enemies pass through locked doors without a key?
Answer: They know the magic word.
Question: Why didn't the Courbée Dominate tried to flee instead of
fighting?
Answer: The existence of the fissure gates knocked out all telephones,
so if something happened at the complex, someone has to tell it
personally to the higher-class members, which means, communication is
mighty slow between the falanster's estates. After Einar Moen and the
Alliance operatives arrived and started to infiltrate the complex, most of
them didn't had the time to warn the others, and the Empress clearlyunderestimated 
the approaching threat. By the time they realize this is
no joke, it was too late to turn back.
Question: How big the falanster is in real?
Answer: The falanster is divided into seven districts, each one bears a
name of a capital sin (in Latin). It's like seven fortresses in one - quite
big.
Question: Is Tristania3D connected to, or influenced by the Twilight
series?
Answer: Absolutely not. Tristania3D is completely unrelated to Twilight
or any other movies.
Question: Why aren't boss enemies and Tasoths effected by the
difficulty level?
Answer: "Small" enemies can be allocated into 3 level groups. Level 1
enemies appear at all difficulties, level 3 enemies appear only at the
third skill level, and level 4 enemies only appear at the fourth. Boss
enemies doesn't have a "level" property, because there aren't that many
bosses which would worth creating a leveling allocation for them
(primarily because there are compulsory bossfights, which should't be
skipped by playing on the lowest difficulty), therefore every boss enemy
will appear at the lowest difficulty level also. As for the Tasoth...well,
the Tasoth has the characteristics of a static object (like a table or a
torch), and objects are uneffected by difficulty level settings.
Question: Why didn't you create more sounds for Black Apostles,
Priestesses and object pickups?Answer: At first, each enemy had multiple death screams 
(except
Drones) and each object had digital sounds, but when we actually tested
the game to see how it works, Tristania3D crashed with the worldfamous "Abnormal 
program termination" message, showing that the
game successfully ran out of memory. We didn't have any other choice
than deleting the extra sounds. All that hard work...
Question: Why do the characters have errors in their speech?
Answer: The Annihilation Taskforce's members speak some sort of
ghetto-slang amongst them, so these errors - including grammatical ones
- were done deliberately. For any other spelling and grammatical
mistakes or typos, I apologize, English is not my native language, so I
might make some mistakes...but rarely.
Question: You suck, this game sucks, other games are many times better
etc...
Answer: Well, if you don't like Tristania3D, nobody forces you to play
it. After all, we all live in a free country, no? It's really hard to write
constructive criticism, many of you don't seem to have any talents for
that, except the four-letter biological organic waste (sh*t)...so I accept
negative critics as well as positive ones, as long as you are able to keep it
in a mannerful way.
Question: How can snow fall if the sky is totally clear and starry?
Answer: During night, snow clouds are also dark, thus, you can't see
them. This is why there are so few stars visible on the sky. And the
moon...nothing in the world could make me to leave out the moon!Question: How come 
Einar Moen does not lose his receiver or the Bible
when he loses all his weapons?
Answer: The Bible was small enough to fit in his flak jacket, just like the
radio receiver. And the flak jacket has zipped pockets, so things can't
just fall out of them so easily.
Question: If the Drones are unholy creatures, why can't be the Bible
used against them?
Answer: By the time Einar Moen would read the correct psalm on them,
he would become sieve. It is quicker, and easier to shoot them.
Question: If the Black Apostles and the priestesses wear these special
robes which "halve every damage they take", why do they die instantly
when shot with sniper rifle or bazooka?
Answer: These weapons are extremely high caliber guns with destructive
firepower, which means, HALF of the firepower is enough to kill them.
Also note that these enchanted robes are not some kind of deflector
shields - they don't deflect damage, they absorb it, at least they try, so
the human still takes damage under them. Otherwise, it'd be impossible
to kill anyone wearing these robes.
Quesion: Why do Drones sit on toilets if they are just ashes, and thus,
never take a shit?
Answer: Apart from the fact that this is a nice, elaborate trap, Drones
doesn't seem to like bright lights, that is one of the reasons why they
rarely appear in wide, luxury areas. Therefore, they retreat to a dimly lit
place, where they can await until the time of need. Since they can't talk,they might 
see no reason hanging out with their superiors, or fellow
Drones - they're just puppets, why would they mingle?
[7] Appendix
Contacts
You may get in contact with me through my e-mail address or on my
homepage (registration required – use temporary E-mail service, if you
REALLY want to register). You can ask questions, post feedbacks,
comments, or suggestions regarding Tristania3D.
E-mail: lambdasecorder@gmail.com
Home page address: http://lambdateam.blog.hu
Note that all viruses, spywares, spam will return to the sender.
Special thanks
I would like to say a few kind words for those people, who have
helped me a lot with Tristania3D in smaller-bigger degrees, and saved
me a lot of trouble, a lot of headache, and encouraged me to start, and
finish creating this game.
h To Deviator Adel, for showing me the dark-gothic lifestyle, the
alliance between dark-goths and militarists, and for spending 1 month
with me. I am still thankful for the time we spent together.h To Chris, from DieHard 
Wolfers forums, helping me with the
signon screen, and the ingame text editing – this help was extremely
valuable at the final stage of development, after MCS messed up the
whole engine, with the help I got, I could finish the project with MUCH
less bugs and quirks.
h To my loyal and patient testers – Tassadar, feketemacskusz,
TaMáS, Chris, Selator, and various other temporary Lambda teamers.
h To ScarletGothica for her wonderful artworks which was quite an
inspiration for me, not to mention she gave me permission to use some
of her artworks. She deserves a Collector’s CD-ROM edition for that!
h To Adam Biser, for helping me with WDC.
h To Jay Reichard, and dauqS, for giving me LOTS of assistance with
the Tristania3D Original Soundtrack album. Thank you, boys – thank
you for everything!
h To EmperorKonny from the Tristania Message Board – a lot of
thanks for the Tristania MIDI files!
Disclaimer
Tristania3D is a completely virus/adware/spyware-free software, I shall
not be liable for any claims or damages whatsoever, including property
damage, personal injury, intellectual property infringement, loss of
profits, or interruption of business, or for any special, consequential or
incidental damages however caused, whether from the use of this
software or any files created with it.
Lambda Team can’t help you if you have missing, damaged or
altered game files! We shall take no responsibility of systemcrashes or game malfunctions 
because of game hackings! If your
downloaded game is damaged or non-functional, try downloading
the game from somewhere else! Closure
So you have reached the end of the official Tristania3D manual. I
tried to write things down in an understandable and simple way, so
everyone can understand how this game works, and can play it without
any flaws, and hold-ups. You have all the knowledge about the game
you need to know as a fresh beginner.
Nowgo,and
rescueVibeke!!!
     
