                                      Return to Castle Totienstein™

-HISTORY:
You are BJ and you are in Castle Underground, you first came into Castle Totienstein, 
your brother, Cool  BJ, was in Castle Totienstein  10 years ago, well, you are searching 
for the operation: SS, unfortunately , Totis hunted you, and now you are nowhere. 
You have to enter to Castle Totienstein again, killing Grans Grosse, go to Castle 
Underground and discover whether the Operation: SS is real or not, also the Allied 
Forces also told you of a chemical war and a Fourth Reich too…                   
                                                                                 
                                                  Only you can do B.J.           
                                                                                 
                                            Good luck!
-ENEMIES: 
Guard:
    Use a pistol or a machine gun in big groups.
SS Guard: 
   Always use a chain gun, BE CARREFUL!!
Officer:
   Use a machine gun or a chain gun in big groups.
Wolfenstein SS Mutant:
   Always use a chain gun, they are easily to kill but are very fast too.



-BOSSES (use missile launcher or chain gun):
Grans Grosse: 
   The protector of Castle Totienstein is here.
Heinrich Messerschmitt:
   BE CAREFFUL! 4 or 5 of these missiles can kill you.
Tod:
   He is the protector of the Fourth Reich. When you kill his human form, he converts 
to                                                             it death form, so, 
don’t be happy when you kill the human form.                             
 
Colonel Krell:
   If you use the missile launcher he is very easy to kill.
Eugene Grosse:
   He is the father of the Grosse family.
Colonel Eisenhande:
   He is the protector of the Fourth Reich in Castle Haufman.
 
-TREASURES:
Cross:
   It gives you 100 points.
Chalice:
   It gives you 500 points.
Chest of treasures:
   It gives you 1000 points!
Crown
   It gives you 5000 points!
Master Cup:
   IT GIVES YOU 7500 POINTS!
Extra life
   IT GIVES YOU 100% HEALTH, 25 AMMO, AND AN EXTRA LIFE!



-ITEMS:
Ammo:
  It gives you 8 of ammo. (4 if an enemy drops one).
Ammo box:
  It gives you 25 of ammo.
Missile box:
  It gives you 5 missiles.
First aid kid:
  It gives you 25% of heath.
Food:
  It gives you 10% of health.
Dog Food:
  It gives you 4% of health.
Death Artifact:
  DON´T TOUCH IT or you are DEATH, it only appear on episode 2.
-KNOWN BUGS:
-Sometimes, when you are spotted by multiple enemies at once, the sound will cut 
out after they shout out their warnings.
-Sometimes when you start the game the "T" screen is without music and the menu show 
the music faster for a few seconds.
-When you finish an episode the "Averages" show all the ratios at 37% and have to 
show it at 100%   (If you kill all the enemies, found all the secrets and take all 
the treasures, obviously).  
-If your PC does not want to run RTCT™	, try in DOSBOX or check out some of the troubleshooting 
tips on the web for running Wolfenstein 3D in general, that is for your PC not for 
my add-on.
PS. FPS COUNTER (not bug): To turn on/off the fps you have to run the debug.bat, 
then, in the game press LSHIFT+ALT+BACKSPACE to activate the debug keys and then 
press TAB+X.
-A LITTLE TIP…
If you see a wall with a flag or something different to the other walls, check if 
this wall is a secret door. 
-MX SOFTWARE: 
This game is freeware you may distribute it.
 
  
Sorry for my English, I speak Spanish.                                           
                                                                      
Toti. 
