The story so far....
You've killed all the Sorceror's guard and the Sorceror himself, taken his cursed 
spellbook and killed
the Guardian of Doom. You end the curse of suffering that was laid upon you, two 
hundred years ago.
You laid down and breathed your last breaths, remembering all the Ghosts and Creatures 
you battled.
Then you die.......

You wake-up. Expecting to see the brightness of heaven, you wake up and see the same 
place you fell.
In the lost dimension. You wonder why you're not dead. Maybe the lost dimension keeps 
people alive.
In the end though, the only thing you want is escape. And so you begin a long journey.


For those who haven't played the first Revnege before, these are the weapons you 
get:
Knife: Normal knife weapon. Stab and kill.
Orb Of Spells: Same as pistol. BJ's other dimensional self's main weapon and spell 
orb.
Lightning spell: Pick up from Gravity Commando Imps or from a Lightning Spell Box. 
Fires lightning bolts.
Does the most damage.
Orbs Of Destruction: Same as chaingun. BJ's more powerful, rapid firing orbs.

Enemies known to you:
Demon Guard: Like the normal guards. These are the main creatures that roam the lost 
dimension. Eqipped with an orb.
Gravity Commando Imp: These creatures are like the SS. They walk on the roof and 
carry chainguns from
the other dimension.
Demon Gnoll: Just like a dog. Guards some areas in the lost dimension.
Demon Lord: Guards critical portals (next level switches) to other areas. Also commander 
of the demons.
Eqipped with Orbs of Destruction.
Demon Lord Bodyguard: Guards the entrance to the lost dimension's portal area. Equipped 
with Orbs Of
Destruction and two Lightning Orbs that fire powerful bolts of lightning.

There are two other enemies. You'll find them in the last level.

There are ten levels in total. There will always be the same wall but that's because 
of the area you're
in. Also there may be times when you find a Pot plant in the middle of no-where. 
That is because this
dimension in taking in objects and randomly placing them.

Credits also shown in game:
Thanks to the following people for sprites I edited:
Cyberatog for the Gnoll - Demon Gnoll
Ian Summerfield for the Commando Imp - Gravity Commando Imp
Majik Monkee for the C7 guard - Demon Guard

Wolfenstein 3D Dome for distribution of the game.