THE STORY


It's somwhere in the future...

An extremist Nazi group have just discovered the crumbled ruins of Castle Wolfenstein.


Some fragments of the "How to make a mutant" cookbook was found and they started 
to conduct experiments.

They recovered the genetic material of Herman Goering the only former leader possible 
to find remains of, and they applied
ABUSE ( a heck of a game even if it's a scroller ) genes and started to blend.

The result was not predictable, and Herman turned out like an ugly looking creature, 
not satisfied with his appearance.

Was not able to take a whirl with his curly legs, at a disco, for to find some chicks, 
so to say....

Extremely dissatisfied with himself, he started to take control over the Nazi movements, 
and turned more extreme in his thoughts than ever.

The only satisfaction for Herman was the creatures that came out from the mutants 
laboratory, BAT's !!

"Mein Gott im himmel,, LuftWaffe" Herman cried out, as a former head of the German 
Air defence, unable to rise funds
for to make or purchase a new fleet of combat planes.

Herman found some of his stolen goods from World war II and started to rebuild Castle 
Wolfenstein. No drawings of the original were available
so Herman, stole the WolfBel III mapset, interior from the graphics of The ultimate 
challenge Spear of Destiny sequel,
and made the new castle after that.


Well....  You are ....   Hmmmm.........

You are simply the one and only, but kicking, blazing, ! Y*O*U*R*S*E*L*F ! ,  clutched 
up to a recently engineer'd drone, constructed by the new alliance, yes it's the 
future, to combat the new threat to humanity developed under Hermans underground 
reign.

As the created mutants turned out as BAT's, regarded as serious threat to passenger 
traffic by the civil aviation authorities, and not could be accepted by the Alliance. 
There were also extensive Xperimentation in Nuclear physics, beamed, slowspin Neutrons 
was the target for Herman.

When the intelligence found out, You were on.

Provision of using Wolf3D for the remote control, was granted, as the fastest device 
of it's kind, both in reception and perception.

Your Drone is named after the legend B.J Blazkovitch, a pretty tough one,  able to 
carry a heavy, rapid fire, chain fed gatling gun, as no human was found, able to 
make close combat with 100 round's per second recoiling through their bodies.

When done over with it, you shall file a petition to the President of Alliance III, 
and complain over the fact, that Mr B.J Drone is taking all the honour.


BECAUSE YOU
are the
ONE AND ONLY.

Don't forget that.

Have fun.

P.J.
