THE RESURECTION OF PIGBOY CRABSHAW


What that title ...?

Well all is about recovery of historic items, the short story line Herman Goering's 
genetic material, and the main...

The graphics, and to some part sounds of the third Spear of Destiny release, The 
ultimate challenge.

The so-called Spear of Destiny Lost Episodes.
There was two add-on's released by the FormGen Corporation in 1994 for Spear of Destiny.

They were titled "Spear of Destiny Mission 2: Return to Danger" and "Spear of Destiny 
Mission 3: the Ultimate Challenge." 

I had both of those, and the graphics were superb, especially those of Ultimate challenge, 
but I, as seemingly all, lost them.

Have during two months heavy deployment in Wlf3d / Spear of Destiny been through 
some hundred sets.
Found that the Ultimate challenge graphics still were there (no wonder, they are 
really good), dispersed in so many vswaps, so I've
lost the count.

Slowly recovering my 94 / 95 Wolf3d frenzy, I started to remember, and gathered the 
fragments.

Two wallsets were found almost complete, but the most was found, dispersed in a hell 
lot of files.

So It's not a 100% restoration of the original, but should bet on, close to it, partly 
due to choosing Wolf3d indexing and partly
not able to find all shading variants of all wallsets. Even found the somewhat silly 
knife.

The vswap shall work with all maps, designed for the original Wolf3d full release 
graph set, as much attention was paid
on compatibility in sequence of indexing of all the graphics.

Wolf Bel III was chosen, as one of the best mapsets out there, the maps of the lost 
missions were not so good
so I've found no interest in their recovery.

Together they make a fair and challenging game, set in a very nice environment.

Pass your gratitude's to Brian Lowe and Bill Hough who made the first 14 lev's for 
the maps.

What is left....

Extract the files to some specially created folder, and copy .....
         In respect of the copyright owner(s), the audiohed.wl6 file is not included 
in the zip. 
         You must take that from your own registered Wolf3d set.

          Proper thinking Poet  !

The executable is a flat off, Tcc compiled / Tasm5 assembly, highly optimized version, 
out of the src.

Read the short story, pop yourself up, and a start to shoot, in one of the nicest 
graphical environments ever made for Wolf3d / Spear.

P.J.

