
		-= DESTROYERS OF IGNAS =-


		About:

It's game... and it's about... IGNAS!! The perfect sequel
to the ultimate neverending DESTROYERS OF IGNAS campaign
is unleashed! Now you can listen to KILL IGNAS and kill
Ignas at the same time! (Ain't that cute?)

DOI game is a mod/TC for Wolfenstein 3D and Newwolf, and
due to the point of the mod (which is... "KILL IGNAS!"),
you won't need to save/load your game often and still
produce hundreds of corpses of Ignas. You can even skip
some levels if you like, by taking the elevator just
as you enter the floor! There is a boss and a secret
level too.


		Features:

1. Enemies replaced with walking and talking Ignas
2. Different death animations
3. KILL IGNAS - the ultimate soundtrack
4. One whole episode of 9 levels, incl. secret one
5. "Read This!" manual and all endgame briefings
   with a plot for Wolfenstein 3D
6. Several new wall textures
7. Ignas - the boss!!
8. Turboaddictiveness


		Installation:

DESTROYERS OF IGNAS doesn't need any installation,
you can run it on almost every PC anywhere! All you
should do is:

1. Extract everything from the zip
   (if you haven't done so already)

2. Launch the game *

 * there are two modes you can choose from: the original
   old-school DOS version (runs with DOI.exe) and
   OpenGL newwolf (runs with DOIgl.exe).

Also, if you have WindowsNT or higher, you won't be able
to get the DOS version working properly, unless you:

a) download VDM sound emulator
http://www.ece.mcgill.ca/~vromas/vdmsound/download/index.html

or

b) download DOSbox
http://dosbox.sourceforge.net/


		Bugs:

* If you're in OpenGL mode (DOIgl.exe) and
  kill the boss, nothing happens. Ignore that.
  (or play the DOS version for the original
  "LET'S SEE THAT AGAIN!" effect)

* DOS mode sometimes crashes without any reason.
  Simply exit the game and launch it again.

* Also, in DOS mode: when you get to the 7th
  floor and move your first secret wall, choose
  the door on the RIGHT, if you don't want any
  weirdness and crashes.


		Last words:

You've read this bullshit, now go kill some Ignas!

And if you enjoyed killing Ignas, you will definitely
have to get the musical CD of the band D.O.I.,
containing the ultimate KILL IGNAS track, goth and
ska remixes, other anti-Ignas songs and the official
KILL IGNAS VIDEO!

Visit D.O.I.on the web: killignas.cjb.net
Or drop us an email to: doi_band@yahoo.com

This mod was last seen on:
	killignas.cjb.net/game
	mods.moddb.com/4129

Made by Ueberwolf (the almighty Ignas slayer)
	ueberwolf@yahoo.ca


	Sieg KILL IGNAS!
	Sieg KILL IGNAS!
	Sieg KILL IGNAS!
	Sieg KILL IGNAS!
	Sieg KILL IGNAS!
	Sieg KILL IGNAS!
	
2004-10-28
