
Wolfer Spotlight
Nate Smith
 

The first wolfer to figure out how to compile the source code released by id,
Nate Smith effectively completed the evolution of Wolfenstein add-ons from
"old-school" to "standalone" started by Chris Chokan the previous year with
the hex-edited EXE of "Chokage". He shared his source code compilation tips
with the community through his web site at the time, "Beyond Wolfenstein II".


Nate also set up The Wolfenstein 3D Fan Club on Yahoo after the very popular
original club run by Dave was shut down due to rumored TOS violations of some
sort. Unfortunately, the new club was never the same, and the "Die Hard
Wolfers" club on Yahoo would soon become the main gathering place for wolfers.
Then, when Yahoo started bombarding its clubs with advertising, DHW moved to
www.areyep.com as a phbPP-powered forum run by BrotherTank. But I digress...
 

Nate came up with some exciting new features: different ammo types for
different weapons, new enemies with different strengths than we had seen,
a bit of flash when you walked under a light, seven weapons, greater than
100% health and 99 bullet capacity, and the big one: the rocket launcher.
You may say so what, but this was 1999. The community has caught up to and
surpassed Nate's accomplishments since then, but his add-ons were ground-
breaking and extremely popular at the time, especially "Beyond Wolfenstein II
Special Edition".


Unfortunately, the popularity of the aforementioned, as measured in downloads,
caught the attention of id Software CEO Todd Hollenshead, and Nate was asked
to pull his "Beyond Wolfenstein" series from his site and its mirrors due to
copyright infringement. The upcoming release of "Return To Castle Wolfenstein"
was believed by many to be another contributing factor in this crackdown.
The affected mods were:

Beyond Wolfenstein (06/16/99) removed 02/03/01
Beyond Wolfenstein II (07/07/99) removed 02/03/01
Beyond Wolfenstein II SE (11/30/99) removed 02/03/01


For a while, this had a very chilling effect on the whole Wolfenstein
community; several modders stopped work on their add-ons, or at least delayed
their release until further clarification on what was legal to do with the
source code. A few just left outright.
 

Nate himself stopped Wolfenstein modding after this, though he still has a
web site <Wolf3d World> which has his legal add-ons and a copy of the
infamous e-mail. Because of the unavailability of his best work, the widely-
held opinion that his new engine features far outweighed his level design,
and his unwillingness at first to share his source code changes, Nate Smith
tends to be a somewhat forgotten member of wolfer history. 


By the way, "Wolfenstein Mission 2" is a registered add-on containing
graphics, sounds and levels from the so-called "Lost Episodes". I guess
FormGen's CEO was too busy to notice...

 

Andy Nonymous

 

                    Nate Smith's releases


Name of addon                Release       Notes

Wolfenstein Mission 2        09/01/98      aka Wolfm2 
Schabbs' Resurrection        04/08/99               


                    Contributions to others' releases


Sr's Wolf         	     02/13/00      by Harry Sr.
The Final Solution (v3.0)    08/19/01      by Tristan van Putten
