SUBJECT: REPORT ON FINDINGS REGARDING THE CHUPACABRA VIRUS
FROM: F. HARRY ABRAMS, SR OSS AGENT
TO: COLONEL JAMES PATTERSON

Regarding the as of now unclassified virus referred to simply as "Chupacabra", our 
research indicates it is, by nature, a virus affecting only canine species. The affects 
of this virus appear to be heightened aggression, increased metabolism, loss of ability 
to reason, and increased strength and durability. The less fortunate effect of the 
virus appears to be loss of bodily fluids (primarily blood and saliva) from the oral 
cavities and a general lack of concern for personal grooming (more noticeable in 
certain breeds of canine than others).

Currently, it is known through channels we will not here discuss that the bio-technological 
company known as Regenschirm has resurfaced, despite being dismantled years ago, 
and has taken an interest in manipulating the virus for their own purposes. Furthermore, 
we have also learned that they have attempted to remove the more unpleasant effects 
of the virus in the hopes of turning it into a form of "super adrenaline boost" for 
use on humans in combat. Were they to succeed in doing what they hope, the result 
would be powerful and unpredictable individuals driven primarily by primal instinct. 
Successfully applying an unedited Chupacabra virus to a human subject would likely 
result in a most unpleasant individual, a drooling, bloodthirsty madman driven only 
by rage and the desire to kill.

At this point, further information is limited, as is the actual level of progress 
Regenschirm has made in their efforts to purify the virus for military use. However, 
a large number of local villagers have gone missing, leading us to the unfortunate 
conclusion that they may be being used as unwilling hosts for Chupacabra. The local 
government of the region as well as the OSS would appreciate if you could address 
this matter, and form a team to investigate this Regenschirm outpost and neutralize 
their research before it continues any further.

Regards,

F. Harry Abrams
Senior OSS Agent



