Hitlers Revenge
Version 4.1

By Joey Main

	1.Story

	Many many months after Hitlers death. Allied forces said that they say a man with 
an
uncanny resemblence of Hitler.This man who was said to be hitler was actully him. 
It seems before
snabbs died he cloned himself and Hitler. Using pods that made clones of anything.You 
were send 
in to stop this. Now its all up to you!


 
	2.Description 
this demo of HR has ten complete levels
When the complete game is done I expect it to have...

60 new levels
New sounds
Some new enemies
New bosses
New objects and wall panels
and a new executable

	3.Enemies
	* means not in the demo version

1.Marine-Marines are pretty easy to kill. They need to come right up to you since 
they only carry
Tazer pistols

2.Guard-Guards carry the reguler pistol and take 2-3 shots to kill

3.Officer-Officers carry a couger magnum and pack a punch.they dodge your shots.3-5 
shots to kill.

4.Mutants-Mutants are one of the strongest enemy youll face they shoot faster then 
you ever could

5.SS-The SS carry Machineguns and they dont give up very quickly. 5-7 shots.

6.NSF-The Nazi Special Forces carry Flamethrowers and they look like an average SS 
so dont be fooled

7.Hans Grosse-Hans is back and he still has the scar from the first battle.This time 
its personal

8.*Ubermutant- Snabbs prize mutant is stronger then most mutants. You will find many 
of these out
there so be careful.

9.*Snabbs-I guess we can say its all his fault Hitlers back so give him his reward.


10.*General Fettagist-The good general is back and he wants Revenge.So give him the 
chance.

11.*Otto giffmacher-Now you must kill this man before he starts another chemical 
war.

12.Hitler-This is it now kill him again and this time do it right.



	4.Equipment

1.Knife-this weapon is only needed when out of ammo.Dont count on it when fighting 
a boss.power*

2.Pistol-okay this thing does minamal damage and it does waste much ammo.power**


3.Machinegun-This is the perfict weapon it does a fair damage and takes only one 
bullet per shot.power****

4.Chaingun-This onebarreled death machine is best for Bosses and rooms of baddies.power*******


	5.Items 
Food- The nazis cant cook anymore(but who said they could)this item gives you 6% 
health.

Mini Health kit-This adds 10% health.

First aid kit-Adds 25% health.

Servivel kit-This a very handy find it gives you Full health,25 bullets and an extra 
life!

Clip-This is ammo gives 4-8 bullets.

Treasure-Come on what do you think this does.


6.Levels of intrest.

level 10 is actully a demo of the second level of episode two.Its called the Express 
line.


7.credits

Game design-Joey Main.
Graphics-Joey Main and Zoey Syncrude.
Levels-Joey Main, Zoey Syncrude and Cyrus Maccen.
Programming-Joey main and Zoey Syncrude.
Tests-Zoey syncrude.
Special thanks-Zoey Syncrude(again).

Please send any questions or comments,to joeymain@microsoft.com