The annotated Golden Episodes include saved games for Episodes 1, 2, 3, 4 & 6, all 
of which are at the start of floors 2 through 10 at the 'No One Is Safe', ('I am 
Death Incarnate'), level, with maximum health and ammo, (except one floor where I 
neglected to collect all of the ammo after completing the floor, so there are only 
152 rounds to start the floor, rather than the maximum of 200). If you complete floor 
10 on any episode, you can determine which floor has the secret elevator by subtracting 
one from the floor number next following the completed secret floor.

There are very few push wall secrets on most levels in this addon. Most of them are 
after or near the first locked door. There are also few ammo and health points to 
be found on some levels.

To save ammo, USE THE KNIFE AS OFTEN AS POSSIBLE!!!, often against multiple SS, (gray 
uniformed soldiers with machine guns) and Officers, (white uniforms). Where possible, 
find a right angle in the corridor for knife fighting, or lure them out one at a 
time. The SS in particular require a lot of knife thrusts to be killed. Build up 
a large reserve of ammo scattered throughout the floor so that you can switch to 
the chain gun after you get through a locked door.

I don't have any saved games for Episode 5. I've only managed to reach floor 2 on 
this one when playing at the baby level. There are just too many Mech Mutants and 
not enough bullets to kill them at the 'No One Is Safe' level. 

I managed to complete Episodes 1, 2, 3, 4 & 6 with 100% Kill at the 'No One Is Safe' 
level without using any cheats, so it can be done, (with a lot of saving). Use cheats 
if you must. 

The saved games allow you to practice or start any Episode on any floor of your choice, 
with the exception of Episode 5. You can also play in 'reckless abandon' mode, where 
the goal is to reach the elevator without saving, with no effort made to conserve 
health or ammo. If you succeed, you can use the next saved floor with full health 
and ammo restored. If you fail, Try again.

If you can complete episode five at ANY setting without cheats, then you're a whole 
lot better than I am!

To use the saved games, open the Saved Games folder for the episode of your choice 
and COPY/paste the SAVEGAM.TGE files to the main game folder. If you use cut/paste, 
you will lose the saved games if you save again while playing the floor, (unless 
you keep the annotated .rar archive file intact). If you want to use the saved games 
from a different episode, follow the same procedure, and click the 'yes' tab in the 
Confirm File Replace dialog box, (or delete the SAVEGAM.TGE files for the episode 
that you had been playing previously). 

If you play at a setting other than 'No One Is Safe'/ 'I Am Death Incarnate', the 
saved games will not be of use to you, except for practice.

Please note that the F5 key is used for saving games, rather than F2, as in most 
Wolfenstein 3D games.

Good Luck, B.J.!!!