=====================================
Wolfenstein 3-D - The Golden Episodes
=====================================

README.TXT



Hello!! My name is Norberto Ariel Castañares, I'm the author of this game. Please, 
follow me through this readme, I can assure you won't regret it.  

Not to let the Read This! section in the game become too long, there have been some 
things skipped there, but which are mentioned here. In this readme, you will find 
those things under the following headlines:

1. Files you need to play the game
2. Game manual (extension)
3. Known bugs
4. Credits

Before beginning, and needless to say, you also have to head to the Read This! section 
within the game if you want a complete description of this add-on. This is strongly 
recommended for those who care about plot, features and those aspects that provide 
full meaning to a game. So, if you are one of those, be happy, because there's a 
whole Read This! section waiting for you...

Now, let's get it on!   


1. Files you need to play the game
==================================

The Golden Episodes is supposed to be posted on the net with these and only these 
files inside. If you lack one, or some of them, you will probably have problems running 
or within the game. Please, check out that these and only these files are the ones 
included inside the compressed file you downloaded:

AUDIOHED.TGE
AUDIOT.TGE
BEGART1.TGE
BEGART2.TGE
BEGART3.TGE
BEGART4.TGE
BEGART5.TGE
BEGART6.TGE
DEMO0.TGE
DEMO1.TGE
DEMO2.TGE
DEMO3.TGE
DEMO4.TGE
DEMO5.TGE
ENDART1.TGE
ENDART2.TGE
ENDART3.TGE
ENDART4.TGE
ENDART5.TGE
ENDART6.TGE
GAMEMAPS.TGE
MAPHEAD.TGE
README.TXT
READTHIS.TGE
TGE.EXE
VGADICT.TGE
VGAGRAPH.TGE
VGAHEAD.TGE
VSWAP.TGE


2. Game manual (extension)
==========================

What follows is an extension of the game manual included in the Read This! section 
of the game. Here, you'll find some details not commented there. Read on and find 
out which are the details that complete The Golden Episodes' game manual.

Options menu  
------------
Right after the opening sequence, you gain access to the game menu. There, you are 
able to select among the following options:
New Game: Leads you to the episode selection, and then the skill level. After deciding 
how brave           you are, the action begins. What is important is that, if you're 
already in a game, you           are here asked whether you want to finish the game 
you're in or not, in order not to             begin again without your confirmation.

Sound: Here you select what sound device you want to use. You can choose among the 
PC Speaker,          Adlib, Sound Blaster and Disney Sound Source to configure the 
sound effects, the digitized        sound and the music of the game. You can also 
select None in any of them, to have no sound        at all. You can make the combinations 
you desire, and play the game using the devices you        want.
Control: Allows you to select the control you'll use when the game is on. You can 
choose among            the mouse, joystick and keyboard to play, and customize them 
all.
Load Game: Lets you load a game previously saved. Once done, you go on with the action 
from the             point where the game was saved. As in the New Game section, 
everytime you're already             playing and you select a game to load, you'll 
be asked whether to end the game you're            in or not.
Save Game: Here you can save the game you're playing, in order to go on with it in 
the future.              You are provided with ten slots to save a maximum of ten 
different games. If you                 select to save a game on a slot already occupied, 
you will be asked whether to                   overwrite the saved game kept on that 
slot or not.
Screen Size: Here you can increase or decrease the size of the screen within the 
game.
Read This!: As commented several times before, in this section you'll find the story, 
the                    description, the features, and the credits of the game. This 
section completes the               readme you're reading, because, as already said 
too, it contains information not                 included here.
High Scores: See The Golden Episodes' hall of fame here. There are seven places available, 
so, if
             you want your name to be on one of them, focus on getting a lot of points 
and you'll              surely succeed.
Back to Demo: Shoots the opening sequence. After the credits screen and the high 
scores, a                     demonstration of the game will be played. When it's 
over, the opening sequence                   repeates. It does it forever until any 
key is pressed.
Quit: Ha! This is the cowards' most chosen option. If you just think the game is 
too much for          you, well, select this one and quit.
When you are already playing a game, you will have to press Esc to enter the main 
menu again. You'll then see that two of the options described above will have changed. 
The High Scores option will have turned into End Game, and the Back to Demo option 
will have become Back to Game:
End Game: As its name indicates, this option will end the game you're playing. You 
will lose all           your lives, and go directly to the high scores page. It'll 
ask for a confirmation of             this action, to give you the chance of reconsidering 
whether to end the game, or go on           with it.
Back to Game: What do you think this option is for? Difficult to predict, huh? I'll 
tell you...                it takes you back to the game.

Function keys
-------------
Although pressing the Esc key at any time during the game will take you to the menu 
described above, the 'F' keys can be used to take you directly to certain options. 
Pressing them while in a game means the same as if you selected them from the main 
menu of the game. Here's what each of them is for:
F1: New Game
F2: Sound
F3: Control
F4: Load Game
F5: Save Game
F6: Screen Size
F7: Read This!
F8: End Game
F9: Quit

Ways to collect points and its benefits
---------------------------------------
There are several ways to increase your score. In the Read This! section it says 
you can collect points by picking up treasure items. Fortunately for you, that is 
not the only way you got to rise your score up. Bear in mind that it can be increased 
also by killing enemies, by getting 100% ratios and by beating the par times. Keep 
on reading to know more about these possibilities. 
An enemy death means points for you. No matter which weapon or strategy you use to 
dispatch an enemy, be sure you will always earn points when an enemy dies. What ammount 
of points do you gain when killing an enemy? Read on:
Patrols: 100 points.
Dogs: 200 points.
SS Guards: 500 points.
Mutants: 700 points.
Officers: 400 points.
Bosses: 5000 points.
Everytime you get a 100% ratio of any kind, kills, secrets or treasure, you earn 
10000 points. As an example, if you finish a level after killing every guard, finding 
every secret, and collecting every treasure item, you earn 30000 points. Pretty clear, 
isn't it?
Know that neither the ninth nor the tenth floor of any episode has this feature. 
This means that your ratios will never be calculated on those floors.
Also, if you beat a level before its par time runs out, you earn 100 points per each 
second the par time had left. I'll give you another example just in case I didn't 
make myself clear... Imagine you're playing a level in which the par time is 5:00, 
say you finish this level when the clock says 4:30, ok? In that case, you earn 3000 
points. Easy, huh?
Before going on with something else, it's important to say that the ninth floor of 
every episode lacks par times. So, no matter how long it takes for you to finish 
it. The six episodes' tenth floor also lacks par times; however, you will win 15000 
points if you manage to finish it. 
Alright, at this point, you already know that earning a lot of points means getting 
a place in the high scores page. You may wonder... is there another benefit? Well, 
the answer is Yes! There is one more benefit for earning points. You will begin the 
game with three lives, and be happy, because every 100000 points you collect, you 
gain a new life! The maximun of lives you can have is ten, quite a lot, don't you 
think?

Secret areas and levels
-----------------------
This part has been hardly mentioned in the Read This!. Let's go a little deeper on 
it here, ok? First of all, every level has secret areas. These are sectors which 
are hidden, so you're not going to be able to explore them as you do with the normal 
ones. To find these secret areas, you have to search on the walls. If you happen 
to find a secret door, you'll gain access to a secret sector. Inside, there will 
be benefits such as items to collect points, or to raise your health. 
In order to beat a level, you will never be forced to find a secret area, so don't 
worry about that. These hidden chambers are there just to help you on your way. 

Secondly, the secret levels. Every episode has a secret level, which is always the 
number ten. To find them you do have to locate the secret door that leads to it. 
As the hidden sectors already commented, these levels are basically there for you 
to collect more points. Hence, it's not compulsory to find them if you only aim at 
finishing the game. 

Cheat codes
-----------
Yes, there are cheat codes in The Golden Episodes. Obviously, they won't be revealed 
here... and don't look for them within the Read This! section, because you will waste 
your time in vain. However, I'll tell you that there's a combination of three letters, 
which have to be pressed down simultaneously during the game. In that way, you'll 
obtain enough help to finish the game, or at least the floor you're on. There's also 
another code you've to enter right after writing TGE.EXE,
which will allow you to enter the debug mode. Once in there, you will be able to 
use some other combinations of keys for your convenience.

Alright, I guess that's enough for this game's manual. I hope every aspect, or at 
least most of them, have been covered. So, let's go to another section...


3. Known bugs
=============

I haven't had any beta tester for this game; however, I have played it myself many 
times before its release. All the episodes in every level of difficulty have been 
tested, so I can assure the whole game is completely beatable. During this period 
of evaluation, I spotted the following bugs. Occasionally, more might appear, as 
I could have missed one, two or more... I don't really know. But well, let's hope 
the ones commented below are all the bugs the game has. Perhaps, some of them may 
sound a little fussy, but to me they're bugs all the same. Bugs, that unfortunately, 
I could never fix before this add-on came out.

First of all, there may be misspelled words, as well as grammar errors here and in 
the Read This! section. Although I took extreme care in order to write them both 
as neat as possible, I may have made mistakes. I'm a human being, and besides, my 
mother tongue is Spanish, not English. 

If you happen to find a Machine Gun without having a Handgun, you will automatically 
get it. The same happens with the Super Gun, if you find one without possessing the 
Handgun or the Machine Gun, you will automatically get the one you lack. The weapons 
were placed on the levels in a way that this can be easily avoided; nevertheless, 
as this bug is present, it's good to tell about it.

This one is a bug, but it will affect only those who don't play with the screen at 
full size. I'll explain how the thing goes... The Read This! section seemed to be 
the cause of a constant decreasing in the screen size. If the screen size was at 
full size, it went narrower everytime the Read This! section was seen, no matter 
if it was from the main menu, or from within the game.
After some tests I discovered that the size of the HELPART.TGE was this problem's 
cause. I tried to reduce its length, but the problem remained. Then I realised it 
did have to do with its length, but also with the images that the section showed. 
Apparently, an important amount of memory was consumed when the Read This! loaded 
those pictures, and as a result of this the screen size became smaller. I then thought 
I would have to take the images out, not to let the screen decrease, but I didn't 
want to do that either. I had spent a lot of time working on those pictures, and 
I really liked how the section looked. So, I ended up doing some simple modifications 
in the source code, and this is the result: Everytime you come back from the Read 
This! section, no matter if you had entered it from the main menu, or from within 
the game, the screen size will be at maximum size. In this way, and only if you play 
with full screen, you won't have any problem. As I said earlier, this is only a bug 
for those who don't play with the screen at maximum size. What you people have to 
do, in case you use a screen size smaller than the maximum, is to select your desired 
size right after coming back from the Read This! section.

The same happens everytime you finish any episode. Like the HELPART.TGE, the ENDART 
files made the screen size go down sometimes. As before, the reason was those files' 
length, so I decided to "fix" the problem like I did with the Read This! section. 
Everytime you finish any episode, the screen size will be at maximum size. 

Alright, here goes the last one. This is indeed the fussiest of all, and honestly, 
I don't really think it can be solved... During the demonstrations, you will see 
that the number of the floor that's being played is always higher than nine. Well, 
only the first of the demonstrations shows the correct number, which is ten. The 
rest of them show the number of the level, not the floor's. For instance, if you 
see 'Floor 24' you have to understand that it is the fourth floor of episode three, 
if you see 'Floor 48' it is the eighth floor of episode five, and so on.

Quite a lot of bugs, huh? Well, nobody's perfect, and besides, I really suck at coding!



4. Credits
==========

Although The Golden Episodes' credits have been included within the Read This! section, 
I decided to post them here too. The following lines say almost the same as in the 
game, only some slight modifications have been made. Here, you will notice that the 
text was like written by another person, not me. Well, I did that on purpose, but 
it was me who wrote this all the time... So, now that you've got here, made a final 
effort and go on reading, friend...

The game as it is now has been possible because of many people's work, who in a direct 
or indirect way contributed to achieve what a Wolfenstein fan dreamt of...

The main responsibles are, undoubtedly, the people who worked at Id Software at the 
time Wolfenstein 3-D, and then its sequel Spear Of Destiny were released.
If those brilliant workers hadn't created both wonderful games, The Golden Episodes 
would not exist now.  

In particular, there is one person who deserves to be mentioned. It was no one but 
John Carmack, head programmer at Id, who made the source code of both Wolf and Spear 
freely available some years after their release. Only because of that, this game 
is what it is.
Although, and as already said, this game is the result of many people's effort, those 
masters at Id and specially John Carmack own the major part of this production. 


A not so big part of this game belongs to the Wolfenstein fan mentioned before.
He went into the task of converting the original Wolfenstein 3-D into what he came 
to call The Golden Episodes, a game totally based on an idea of his. He has devoted 
himself, putting a lot of effort, time and love to make this game possible.
His main aim, like many other people's, was to help keep the Wolf 3-D scene alive, 
as it must remain.

To be more precise, his task consisted of designing the sixty levels of this game, 
in which he tried to do his best.
He changed most of the graphics stored in the VGAGRAPH file, and made almost all 
the modifications in the original source code. This last thing was possible 'cause 
he relied on tons of help tutorials, and personal assistances from the greatest coders 
in the world. If it hadn't been for them, he would've never succeeded in this part.


He took most of the game's sounds from different places, mainly add-ons; and only 
the patrols and five of the six bosses' voices belong to this game, because those 
sounds were recorded by him.
Most of the songs were specially created for this game, although it wasn't him who 
made them.
The rest of the music was carefully picked up from the Internet and rearranged by 
him.

A few graphics stored in the VSWAP file are property of the author, several are slight 
modifications of the original ones, and the rest is nothing but a collection of the 
most beautiful images which belong to some significant add-ons, available at many 
sites on the Internet. 
On the whole, those are all the credits that ought to be known. Thanks a lot for 
reading up to here, now please go on a bit more for a final note from the author...

 
I would like to say thanks to all the people who directly or indirectly contributed 
with this game... thank you very damn much!!! You have completed my work! You have 
made all of this possible!
Thanks a fuckin' lot for letting me use your work here. Thanks a fuckin' lot for 
helping me compile the source code. I just couldn't have done it without you, so 
I really hope you enjoy playing the game as much as I enjoyed developing it!

Slowing down a bit... you may wonder the reason why I named the game this way.
Well, I do believe that every single picture, sound and song used is like a piece 
of gold. Although the game's name has nothing to do with its plot, I decided it'd 
my way to give credit to all the people who created material included here, and in 
that way indirectly contributed with the game. Needless to say, I'm also thanking 
those who directly worked by helping me code.

The Golden Episodes is perhaps a suitable name for a compilation; however, this game 
was never meant to be that. It is indeed, in one way, a compilation of, in my opinion, 
marvellous stuff, but the game's a meaning, which is supposed to go further than 
a simple compilation. I strongly needed to use material already made, because mine 
would've never been good to achieve the atmosphere I wanted my game to have. Happily, 
I can say I have succeeded!

Now, I'd like to state the names of the cool people I've been talking about during 
the last pages. Enormous thanks go to:

Brian Lowe, for his support.

Guido La Valle, for his songs.

AReyeP, Ben Blaufarb, B.J. Rowan, Nate Smith, Ryan de Haast, Tristan van Putten and 
Zach Higgins, for their artwork. 

Kuki, for his artwork and source code help.

And the marvellous MCS and Poet, for the neverending amount of knowledge, kindness 
and patience they offered me during my journey through the difficult lines of the 
Wolfenstein 3-D source code. I bothered them so many times with questions and requests, 
that they undoubtedly deserve a special acknowledgement here.
Thanks, thanks, thanks!

I just cannot forget about the people who made all the great editors, which allowed 
me to make every single change in the original Wolfenstein 3-D. So, big thanks go 
to you too, guys! 

And finally, eternal thanks to Id Software, for creating Wolfenstein 3-D and its 
sequel Spear Of Destiny. These people started a revolution in 3-D gaming, and of 
course, gave life to this game without knowing it.


Phew! That's what I call a credits section...

And for this readme, this is it. If you still want to read more, go to the Read This! 
in the game and have fun. And if you have already read that too, well... you can 
try a book, man!

Nothing left to say, the game is all yours, I hope you like it.

Now, go right out there, make TGE.EXE run, and let 'em die!


 
Best regards,
Norberto Ariel Castañares, 2K3.