Spear of Destiny secret levels
floor 4, (tunnel) secret door to floor 19 (tunnel)
floor 12, (castle) secret door to floor 20 (castle)

mandatory secret walls:
floor 19, placed a gibs item next to the secret wall, also removed 1 extra gold key and made a secret passage to the other gold key, easy to spot.
floor 20, removed some secret walls that could block a path and carved 1 extra space to avoid path blocking, made the necessary secret walls to use easier to spot.
floor 16, made a secret wall easier to spot, it is required to reach the boss of the level.

Return to Danger secret levels
floor 4, (submarine pen) secret door to floor 19 (submarine pen)
floor 12, (atomic research) secret door to floor 20 (atomic research)

mandatory secret walls:
floor 3, made the gold key (required to finish the level) visible but blocked by a blue pillar.
floor 4, made extensive changes to make gold key visible, make easier to spot the path to silver and gold doors, also made easier to spot where silver key (not required to end the level) and alternate path (no need for silver) is
floor 19, made secret wall leading to required gold key obvious, made secret path from silver key to gold key being able to be navigated both ways.
floor 5, made obvious 2 secret walls at start of level + easy to spot 2 secret walls required to reach silver key, removed a secret wall that could cause trouble.
floor 10 moved silver key to end of a one-way labyrinth, morphed all gold keys in labyrinth into silver keys, the door to enter the labyrinth now doesn't require the silver key, made path to end boss obvious.
floor 20, used lights to make easier to find path to silver key, path to gold key, path to elevator door.
floor 14, created an alternate path to elevator room, and removed 1 wall in the starting zone (originally level could be completed only going through 2 secret doors)
floor 17, took silver key out of the secret room, there is a medkit in its place... 2 secret walls are now normal walls so they cannot make impossible to get the gold key.

Ultimate Challenge secret levels
floor 4, (computer technology labs) secret door to floor 19 (computer technology labs)
floor 12, (satellite systems) secret door to floor 20 (satellite systems)

mandatory secret walls:
floor 4, removed a wall to avoid having a path stuck, made a gold door a normal door, made path to 1st exit requiring silver + gold key, made secret path to a 2nd exit easy to spot, made path to secret exit partially easy to spot.
floor 6, made sure each secret wall has always the same tile, and that there is a corpse nearby it.
floor 7, same as floor 6 (except just one optional secret that has a different clue and tileset.)
floor 9, made secret path to gold key easy to spot, also made gold key open to view behind a pillar, once a door is opened. and made path to end of level easy to spot.
floor 11, removed a secret wall leading to end elevator, made a new room nearby accessible with a secret wall of same appearance.
floor 13, in the starting area there is a pool of blood showing the secret wall location, and a wall has been removed. a cage allow to see the path behind without giving access to it.
floor 15, changed textures of 3 secret walls to make them easy to spot, those are required to pick up the silver key.
floor 17, changed 6 walls into green barrels, they are in the same room with a secret wall leading to the real elevator exit.
floor 18, changed 8 walls into white columns, 2 walls into rad barrels, changed a wall with normal texture, changed secret mandatory walls to rare texture, the same as the third mandatory secret wall, added 2 rad barrels and gloo.