                                                         

                            A Story of Escape   


In September 1939, when war broke out in Europe, Hitler had already formulated a 
plan to deal with
his political and war prisoners. All over Germany was a series
of  POW camps, known as "Stalags". The conditions in these camps varied from bad 
to worse. Most of the facilities depended on how much influence the comandant had 
with the
Nazi hierarchy. Hitler's secret police, The Gestapo, had free rein to come in and 
take prisoners out for "interrogations",
usually torture or assassination. Outside of Frankfurt, was a facility known as Reinstaad 
Prison. All the political prisoners and high ranking Jews in Germany were supposed 
to be kept there. It was renowned by the Nazis as being "escape proof".
In 1941, seventy-six allied soldiers escaped from 
Stalag Luft #3 in southern Germany. Most were re-captured and either killed by Nazi 
Deathsquads or tortured until they gave up the information on their co-escappees 
and then killed.
The six ranking allied officers who were left, were sent to Reinstaad. After a year 
there, 2 of the officers died from the harsh conditions,3 were taken out and "moved" 
elsewhere.
You, Colonel B.J. Blazkowicz, are all that remains. And you have an escape in the 
planning, for the conditions here are bad, and you never know when the Gestapo will 
show up to take you on a little "trip". You must get out at all costs, for you 
know that if you remain, you will surely die...

     Now, on to the story. It is 3 months later and  you are sitting in the parlor 
of British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. The discussion has turned from the customary 
"How do you dos"
back to the situation at Reinstaad Prison and the Gestapo . It seems that there have 
been more killings by the death squads
and the situation is bleak for anyone else imprisoned at Reinstaad. You and the Prime 
minister have formulated a plan for you to go to Germany . Once there, it is your 
job to "break in" to the prison, find the evil Nazi scum General "Fat Face" and assassinate 
him. You are to take out as many of his staff as possible, thus throwing the prison 
into chaos. The Prison is laced with dozens of secret passages and 10 floors of nasty

SS Guards. Rumor has it that in the lower levels, there are still some of Schabbs' 
mutants remaining, for the Reich had nowhere else to use them after you killed their 
creator more than a year ago.  
     You and Churchill drink the wine that he so thoughtfully provided, drinking 
a toast to the success of your mission. It came as no surprise to you when he told 
you that you were alone on this mission. You take in the last of the wine, grab your 
coat, then shake the prime minister's hand and you are off into the night....

                                           


               


