    
                        Reinstaad: The Revenge

         This is my first set for Spear of Destiny. There are 10 regular 
levels,1 secret level, and the Angel of Death(LOL), for a total of 12.
 This set is mostly original Spear and Wolf graphics, although I have designed
many new walls for it. You will find a few remnants from Doom as well, although
not many. I wish to thank Mr. Ken O'Brien for the use of his "Pillbox" graphic
and to Paal Olstad for his great level tutorial. I also wish to thank my new friends

Harry "DA MUNCHER", and Brian Lowe for their editing skills and their continued
encouragement. ( Harry's new set: "Closer" is awesome!!!) I have tried to keep 
the atmosphere to the original game in this set. There are dozens of pushwalls and 

secret passages and they hold all kinds of surprises. If you decide you cant handle

 the carnage any longer, there is a "WIMP" exit close to the beginning of some levels.

Hopefully, you wont have to use it...LOL,for a wonderful surprise awaits those who 
do.
The secret level is accessed from level 4. [The registered version of Spear of Destiny 
is required to play this set.] If you liked this set, there are over 2 dozen 
other Wolf3d and Spear of Destiny sets authored by myself and my late Grandfather( 
John Bucksnort)
at my website http://themutantco.cjb.net  . While you are there, check out my
links page and visit Mr. Lowes Wolf3d Dome, Wolfenstein by Harry Sr., Poet's Wolfenstein 
Page(Paal Olstad)
and the many other fine sites listed there. As always, your comments are welcome.

My EMAIL is john_bucksnort (at) yahoo.com 

The following have contributed to my sets and their help is appreciated!!

Harry Mass Sr.
Brian Lowe
Ken O'Brien
Tristan [NAME REDACTED]
Brian Rowan
Greg Yingling
Greg Foley (can't wait for the excellent Mutantstein SE)
Chris Chokan (You know why)
Paal Olstad
John Romero
Florian Stohr
Sam Chiang
Brandon Farmer
and of course, ID Software for a cool-a$$-kicking game!

Enjoy the set and Long live the Spear!           Best regards, Bobby Bucksnort

