* * * Wolfenstein 3-D: The Deluxe Edition v1.10 (Two-level demo) * * *

Here's the status of the mod's features in this ZIP file:

In-game messages - Done.
8 new treasure sprites - 3 out of 8 are graphically done, but all are fully functional. 
 The pack of cigarettes will not be in the final version, thank goodness.
Hint bubbles - Complete.
Ammo crates - These function with the press of the Spacebar.
Tables with items - 100% complete.  Press the Spacebar when you're against a table 
to pick up what's on top of it.
New treasure sounds - Complete, though I might add more later.
Hi-res Static Objects - About 80% complete.
New Static Objects - Graphically, these are all complete, but more may be added later.

Wall textures - About 50% complete.  Check out the hi-res version of the grey brick 
Hitler poster!  :-D
Standard enemies (SS, Mutant, etc.) - 100% complete.  They're just enlarged 64x64 
duplicates of the original.
Bosses and other enemies - Not even *close* to done.
Sign-on screen - Far from complete.  It still shows up, but trust me when I say this 
screen is an eyesore.
New title screen - Done.
New music - Two new tunes from Yours Truly are included.
Animated objects - Enabled.
Directional sprites - Enabled.
Additional enemies - Not done.  One enemy is added, though (as of v1.10).
Read This! text - Not updated.

If I'm not mistaken, all shareware levels run the way they should, aside from the 
purple walls, which - again - are enlarged 64x64 duplicates of the original.

To run the original 60 levels with the hi-res features of this EXE, compile the "WolfDX" 
project instead of "WDX-Demo" in the source code.

Credits:

Original code: Id Software
Wolf4SDL version: Ripper
Additional coding: Merthsoft, WLHack, Tricob, BT, and various code tutorials from 
the Wolf3D Dome and the DHWs message boards
Graphics: Adrian Carmack, Julian Ridley, Chris Benson, Todd Camasta, Sporb, Laz Rojas, 
Tricob, ChaosEdit, WDC, ReColorBMP, MS Paint

Enjoy your Wolf levels in hi-res!  :-)

- "Tricob".