Are you strong enough? Can you make it?
						SCHABBS 7000
January, 1946. A half year after the second world war ended in Europe. And three 
years before the Totengraeber Project were cancelled. 
It's because of you, BJ. You are now relaxing in your penthouse apartment in New 
York with your wife, lucky waiting for a scottish man 
to deliver you his new invesion, the "Tele-vision". Though, the fourth day of february, 
you were called by OSA. They will meet you in a
secret hall - on Broadway. Where the neonlights are bright. So you take your Chevy 
and drive the five miles to Broadway. You meet Dave,
your chief, who gives you a mission. It says, that in the Dolchteufel Executive level 
you ended Project Totengraeber in, was not finished. When 
you jumped, a wall with a drain was breaked down, and tons of "saved" guards came 
out. SS, guards and officers and troopers, who wasn't 
appearing in the level it supposed to. But now they came, after three years behind 
that wall, living of food delivered in the drain. Now you must
stop them all, where they habited. They habited in a Castle, far far away in South 
Germany. In the town of Sandbichl, 10 miles from the border,
it lays, 2000 metres up in the mountains you will find it. It is big, grey and has 
60 floors, all guarded by the Dolchteufel-ones. The castle has 
many units, listed below. But the mission is - that they all reunioned and reincarnated 
Schabbs in his lab, founded in the castle in hills, the place
Bavaria. This is though far away. But Schabbs came anyway, undead and here he is. 
You must fight him at the top of the castle. But the bosses,
who make the castle run, is not the same. These are very different, said in the enemylist. 
But the guide for the castle is here:

Level 1 - Entrance Fortress. Here the journey starts. Now go smash it all!

Level 2 - Administration Center. Get inside, take all you can and pass it to the 
main castle.

Levels 3-6 - Heineburg Dungeons. Nearly in Hell. The prisons here have nearly a slaughtery 
filled with dead bodies. And heavy guarding too.

Level 7 - Tunnel. Connects the downer part of the castle with the other. A sewer 
of somekind.

Levels 8-13 - Übelfesicht Midpart. A place, which is in style with normal bunkers. 
Level 10 is only an office level. Here, you will meet the first of the six leaders.

His name is Terkel Tortmossup, and has a chaingun and a missile launcher. He is one 
of the tough guys.

Level 14 - Tunnel. Here, SS is the only guards. They have their HQ in this level, 
and the 47th.

Levels 15-23. Jüngheimer Midpart. Is more fine, and a little more "important" than 
the other parts. Has much gold, officers in lots, and guarded heavy. Here is
another boss. His name is Jakob Edrich, and is by the nazi marine. He was retired 
in 1938, but is now keeper of the 22nd floor.

Level 24 - Tunnel. All guards are here. So are secrets and gold.

Levels 25-31 - Ytir Cellars. An "upload" to the headquarters, heavy guarded. Some 
levels are labs. Here you will meet Albert Opel Rammstein, a leader. Since
1926 he has been in the army, started out in the early SA-years. Was in the room, 
where Hitler was selected to the leader of Germany in 1933. Is in helmet,
and armor, that looks heavy, but is very bad made. Nearly "Made in China"-made.

Level 32 - Tunnel. Is not so tunnel-real as the others. Is in a bunker-feel, but 
is a tunnel in some places.

Levels 33-39 - Schreiben Uppart. A mix with Jüngheimer and Ytir. Labs, nice places, 
bunkers. Variatons. Here is a boss.
In his heavy armor, he is. Schabbs' best friend and castle leader. His name is Colonel 
Krell. Difficulty is high. The level he's set in directly the same.

Level 40 - Tunnel. Very tunnely. Is slimy and very horrifying.

Levels 41-49 - Sektor Tod. 8 out of 9 levels are labs. Heavy guarded. Here is the 
final boss, Herr Rotfuchs. In a red armor he will fight you with four golden chainguns. 
In a lab, of course!

Level 50 - Schabbs Connection. Here is the new Schabbs. Though, the "Drain"-guards 
gave him a new suit, and a new weapon. All that + many guards + lab = Hell!

Levels 51-60 - Secret levels. All have a secret story! Gotta go find 'em...!

						::: CREDITS :::

Havoc - The EXE. The seamless level progress, the many new static objects, the four 
keys, the ammo box and yes...you name it!
Ken O'Brien - The white guard. (Some might say it comes from Coming of the Storm 
by WSJ, but no, Ken made it to "SOD1" back in 1995.)
Tristan [NAME REDACTED] - The SS and the trooper.
WSJ - The officer. I couldn't find perfect death frames, but I found someone which 
matched best. Thanks to "Himmler's SS" by Luke Strauman.
John Bucksnort - Chaingun extracted from Doom.
Brian - Distribution and regards for lab levels in Abandon and Wolfgeist. (Support 
to lab levels in this game).
Kyle - Ideas from Operation Todpfad.
BJ Rowan - Level Inspiration for the TC-Mecca game Totengraeber.
John Loftis - Schabbs' clean Uniform. I made the syringcolors myself.
Jack Ryerson - I saw his maps. I got inspiration. He made extreme big levels, which 
was nearly in ack-quality in Chemical Warfare.
ack - Map Inspiration.
ID Software - The Holy Game.
Mega Luigi - Support.
Mario Maniac - Support.
Sentenced - To put me in the right place.
RKS Kenny - "Stop man" sound. Some die sounds. I putted the "falling guard trick" 
in myself.
Sandy - SS "Achtung" sound from his set "Project Ewiger Verwustung". Originally from 
RTCW.
Metal Overlord - Support and Ideas from "The Grail of Eternal Life".

This game started the 4th of february 2005. I was on MSN, and I had to get an EXE-builder. 
So I wrote something to Havoc, and before the day was over, he proved a great
excellent EXE. In the start, there was supposed to be 2 new enemies, which were american, 
cause the game was originally called "Projekt Amerika". I changed the title with 
inspiration from "Schabbs 2000" and "Schabbs 9000". So why not make a 7000?

The whole story is long. I learned how to use Borland in mid-january. I builded an 
exe myself. That was called "Uber Deutschland". I changed ceiling colors, music (though 
I couldn't hear it) and new points to the enemies. These were a little absurd. The 
guard had 373, Officer 479 and other numbers which didn't fit. It looked like a mess.

When I builded it, I started play Schabbs 2000. I was inspired by the walls in the 
start. The one "Brown Stone". These were also in the normal Wolfenstein, and I haven't 
used them so much. I don't think they have been in any of my games yet, except Wolfgeist. 
The first level was that. The EXE crashed January 30, the guards - They shouted, 
then walked moonwalk, and had dog frames. I felt bad and sad, and decided to never 
code anymore. Then I planned to base my game on Spear, with inspiration from WolfenDoom 
mods found on www.doomworld.com/wolfendoom. It had big plans, parts were for example 
Sachsenhausen, the Command Bunker in Berlin! But I got bored with it. But then "Paradise 
2" happened.

The 11th of september, 2004, I announced a game called "Kill the Gezis". It had many 
things. I sent in pictures of new frames, which were redone. I didn't have any tools, 
or didn't know how to do anything! But I announced...and cancelled the 4th of october. 
Cause = No tools. And the day after I announced it, "Hell-Day" 12th september, my 
computer couldn't even run Wolfenstein or other "16-bit based" stuff. I came out 
with my sorrow at DHW in december, found plans. First the 4th of February it were 
refrained! Started all from beginning! And now I map and make games on this thing! 
It went forward! And it still does.

Possum Trot, 12th february, 2005.

©2005 by Possum Trot. Thanks to John Bucksnort for the quote in the Headline, and 
level 50 title.









