THE WOLFENSTEIN SEXTILOGY ORIGINAL MISSIONS
BY EXECUTOR

Thank you for downloading the Wolfenstein Sextilogy, my fifth map set (my four previous 
ones--The Road to Despair, The Final Assault v0.5 beta, Episode One Revisited, and 
Spear Revisited are all available on The Wolfenstein 3D Dome at www.wolfenstein3d.co.uk). 
The Wolfenstein Sextilogy aims to recreate the spirit and atmosphere of the original 
Wolfenstein 3D game, but with more complex and more modern level design. The first 
two episodes are included in this release. Episode 1 comprises all the maps of Episode 
One Revisited, making the E1R release effectively obsolete. Episode 2 and 3 are all-new.


The Wolfenstein Sextilogy comes in both DOS and Windows versions. The Windows version 
is accessible via ECWolf.exe or the batch files and contains many features not found 
in the DOS version. The DOS version is accessible via wolf3d.exe (either via DOS 
itself (if you have it), VDMSound (Windows 2000 and XP only), or through DOSBox (the 
FreeDOS command line tools and DOS32A extender are required for use in DOSBox). The 
DOS version provides a more old-style Wolfenstein experience and allows the use of 
the original VSWAP.WL6 (see below).

The Wolfenstein Sextilogy can be played either as a stand-alone TC or as a registered 
version mod. All files are required EXCEPT for the VSWAP.WL6. You can install The 
Wolfenstein Sextilogy with the VSWAP into its own folder and run it as a TC, or you 
can install it without the VSWAP over an existing registered copy of Wolfenstein 
and run it with the original graphics and sounds. The VSWAP is a one-to-one replacement 
for the original and every graphic and sound corresponds to an equivalent in the 
original game--you can even take the VSWAP and put it alone into your original game. 
Everything in the VSWAP is pretty much recognizable from the original game, except 
for Otto Giftmacher and Gretel Grosse, who are replaced by new bosses--Heinrich Krist 
and Lukas Jaeger. They act the same way as Otto Giftmacher and Gretel Grosse--only 
the appearance is changed. Use of the original VSWAP is DOS VERSION ONLY--the VSWAP 
contains additional assets that are REQUIRED to run in Win32 mode.

I hope you enjoy the Wolfenstein Sextilogy. If you wish, let me know what you think 
of it at spaceforce-temp (at) hotmail.com.

Mod authors: You may use the graphics, sounds, etc. from this TC in your own mod 
freely if you give credit, but not the levels. Thank you for your understanding.


Known issues: The quickload feature is known to have serious bugs. Using the F2 and 
F3 keys to save and load the game is recommended.