Okay..."Halls of Stonehenge" has been around for a while now, and most people who've 
played it are probably familiar with at least one or two of the "secrets" of the 
game.  Well, since the game isn't exactly new anymore, I figured it wouldn't hurt 
anything to reveal a few more of the secrets, just so folks who have played it through 
and through can try and get the most out of it.  Be warned that if you haven't played 
through the game all the way, or want to find all the secrets on your own, this document 
may contain spoilers that you don't want to know about.  If that's the case, DELETE 
IT RIGHT NOW!  Otherwise, read on...


CHEAT CODES:

There aren't many of these, and some of them aren't even helpful.  Here are the codes 
that do exist, though.  By the way, there is no "debug mode" in HOS, so if you've 
spent time looking for it, sorry...it doesn't exist.  Here are the codes that DO 
exist, and what they do.


ILM - Injures you, and continues to do so until you let up on the keys.  It's not 
good for much of anything unless you're stuck and killing yourself is the only solution...or 
if you're just sadistic and want to make BJ suffer.  This was implemented because 
it matches the original Wolfenstein item cheat, and it was designed to punish cheaters. 
 :)

ACK - Warps you to a random level (or crashes the game).  This cheat only works though 
if you've "found ACK" (yes, this cheat is named after ack, level designer extraordinaire, 
who did most of the levels in HOS).  I'm not going to tell you how to find ACK, though...you'll 
have to do that on your own.  :P

MEAT - Sort of the equivelant of what the "ILM" cheat did in the original Wolfenstein. 
 It restores your health and gives you weapons and ammo every time you use it.  Like 
the original ILM, there is a cost for using it, though.  Your score will be reset 
to "0" when you do it.  Also, unlike the original ILM, you don't always get all the 
best weapons when you use it.  The more points you have when you use it, the better 
weapons you'll get when the cheat is activated.  The list below shows how many points 
you need to have to get each weapon:

2,000 points gets you the #3 weapon  (tommy gun)
10,000 points gets you the #4 weapon  (riot gun)
50,000 points gets you the #5 weapon  (voodoo doll)
200,000 points gets you the #6 weapon  (magic staff)


THE "BIG SECRET":

I'm not going to tell you what this secret reveals...that would ruin the fun.  I 
will, however, tell you what you need to do to unlock it.  It's pretty complicated, 
so chances of finding it accidentally are pretty slim.  Here are the requirements 
to unlock the deepest, darkest secret to be found in HOS:

1 . Save less than 25, 50,75 or 100 times, depending on your skill level
2. Finish the game with over 500,000 points
3. Don't use any cheats at any time during the game

That's all there is to it! :P  If you can win under these conditions, you'll discover 
the best kept secret of Halls of Stonehenge!  Discover it at your own risk!


SECRET LEVELS:

I'm not going to give a walkthrough at all...you'll still have to do most of the 
looking for these.  These are just some general tips for where to find these if you 
really want to.  They are both pretty heinous, so do so at your own risk.

L19 - FUNHOUSE:  Should be called the "Not so fun house"...anyway, the entrance to 
it is hidden in the fourth level, near the end (ack is a firm believer that you should 
still have to more or less complete the level before you get either the regular or 
secret end).  When you get in a maze-like area that winds around with barrels blocking 
your path and a lot of zombies, you'll know you're getting close to finding it.  
Look for a pushwall near the end of this area (I won't tell you where though).  If 
you find the right one, it will take you to an area where there are some poles blocking 
your way and a single block between them.  Past that, you should be able to see some 
evil looking clown wall textures, and a hound of hades jumping around.  Push the 
block between the posts BEFORE you shoot the hound, otherwise you might wind up blocking 
the pushwall with it's corpse.  Trust me...it's happened to me a million times.  
Once you've done that, you should see the elevator to level 19.  If you find an exit 
that doesn't require the above mentioned steps, and doesn't have clown faces outside 
the door, go back...that's just the regular exit.

L20 - SECRET MINE AREA:  This level's entrance is located in the level 12 mine area. 
 Even if you know where to look for this secret, it's still tricky to get to it. 
 In one of the last rooms of the level, there will be some pushable blocks on the 
left side of a passage that goes straight down the middle.  There are many blocks 
that can be pushed, and it's possible to block yourself from pushing the ones you 
need to if you don't push them in the right order and in the right direction.  It's 
best to always save before you start pushing things around in case you screw up. 
 If you successfully complete the little push wall puzzle, finding the elevator is 
a cinche, and it will take you to the secret level.  That's all I'm going to say 
about this secret...you should be able to figure the rest out yourself!  :)


Well, that completes this little secret revelation...hope the contents of this document 
are helpful!  If you've already discovered all of this stuff, well, you can feel 
proud of yourself...you're a true secret sleuth!  If you haven't discovered all of 
these, well, good luck!  You're gonna' need it!  And as always, thanks for playing 
Halls of Stonehenge!

~Majik Monkee~

mmerrill@centene.com