                                                          		                 The 
               
                    DEAD WORLD RISING 2
			                                    Manual


VERSION 1.1 (Episode 1-2)

BEFORE YOU READ:  In order to view this document properly, you will need the Gunship 
TrueType Windows font.  I have included the font file with this ZIP file (GFont.zip). 
 Simply unzip and add the font using the Add Font program located in your Windows 
Control Panel.  If you have a Macintosh, sorry, but you've lucked out.  

BEFORE YOU PLAY THIS GAME:

If you are reading this document, please pat yourself on the back.  You are a good, 
smart person.  Let's move on then, shall we?  Oh yeah, and if you are sensitive to 
violent stuff and coarse language, you might want to skip the Story part.  But it's 
not real, so don't sweat it.  And if you can't stand violence, why are you playing 
this game?  Go play a mellow game like "Pong" or something.  Geez.

-THE GREAT WASABI

	Oh yeah, and if you feel like you should borrow some stuff from this game, PLEASE 
GIVE CREDIT WHERE CREDIT IS DUE!!!!!!!!!!  Just indicate that that particular piece 
came from this game. Or else the Forces of Evil will be knocking at your door.  Thanks. 
 


TABLE OF CONTENTS:

Section 0- The Credits!

Section 1 - The Story So Far...

Section 2- New and Improved Tools of Ultimate Destruction
	
	SECTION 2.A- Stuff to Help You Along

Section 3- Know Your Foe

Section 4- New Features to DWR 2

Section 5-Contacting the Authors

                                              					

SECTION 0: THE CREDITS

	This game was made possible by the hard work of several other people besides myself. 
 I wish to thank Mega Luigi and Mario Maniac, (Sorry for all the B.S. guys!) and 
Majik Monkee, who, despite being overwhelmed by work, still found time to help with 
the enemy sprites (like the Chaos Knight!).  Next to working on the game, they also 
had the good patience to put up with my constant starts and stops prior to beginning 
DWR 2.  Here's a list of the involved persons, and what they did...

THE GUILTY PARTIES

THE GREAT WASABI:  Ideas, Graphics, Levels, New Sounds, Music

MEGA LUIGI: Graphics, Source Code Changes, New Sounds

MARIO MANIAC: Graphics, Source Code Changes, New Sounds

MAJIK MONKEE: Enemy Sprites

WOLF SKEVOS JONES: Coding 

This game also features music from DOOM and Duke Nukem 3-D, by both Robert Prince 
and Lee Jackson (Who worked on a couple of the Duke 3-D tunes), as well as some other 
MIDI tunes from other stuff (Midi creds are after these ones).  It also has plenty 
of stuff from DOOM I and II, as well as the infamous Duke Nukem 3-D pistol, which 
I borrowed using a clever method I developed. No, I didn't use a Duke 3-D graphics 
editor.  Heh heh.  Hell, this game has stuff from Heretic (another quite fun FPS), 
so thanks to the guys who made it. There's even a few sounds from Quake. I borrowed 
the rifle The Alien Fan was putting in his "Colonial Marines" TC (with a few touches 
of my own idea), in return for my stuff he used from my old DWR 1 demo. This game 
also has plenty of stuff from DWR 1, so the credits from that game also pertain to 
this one.  Thanks goes out to those great guys at both id Software and 3D Realms. 
You guys rock my world!  Now I'm going to go play DOOM 3...

MIDI MUSIC CREDITS

DOOM, DOOM II, Final DOOM- Various Selections

Duke Nukem 3-D- Various Selections

Neon Genesis Evangelion (From the game "Girlfriend of Steel" I believe)
			        (Composed by Katsumi Egashira)
			       -"Asuka"
			       -"Cruel Angel Thesis"
			       -"Freedom"			

Heretic- E1M1 "The Docks"
	- E2M4 "The Ice Grotto"
	- E3M2 "The Cesspool"

Metallica- "For Whom the Bell Tolls"  (You first hear this one in E1M8!)

Resident Evil 2- "Wreckage of the Mad Experiment" (Originally composed by Masami 
Ueda)
		 - "Ada's Theme" 
		 - "Sanctuary (3)" (Originally composed by Masami Ueda)

COPYRIGHT CREDITS

"Neon Genesis Evangelion" © 1995 GAINAX.

Wolfenstein 3D, DOOM, DOOM II, Final DOOM © 1992-1995 id Software.

Heretic © 1994 id Software

Duke Nukem 3-D © 1996 3D Realms Entertainment.

Resident Evil 2 © 1996 Capcom Entertainment

Metallica- "For Whom the Bell Tolls" from "Ride the Lightning" ( METALLICA RULES!)


Quake- © 1996 id Software

SECTION 1:  THE STORY SO FAR

	ESCAPE.  Your escape.  From the hands of the terrible Legions of Hell.  You had 
managed to survive where so many others had fallen into the creeping darkness.  Your 
struggle had not been in vain; for you emerged from the ruins of the LR-304 colony. 
 Alive.

	LR-304 is hundreds of miles away now, as you speed towards the Marine Corps support 
station high above the chaos on Mars.  You can't wait to see another human being 
once again, and finally be at peace with yourself.  Frozen in your mind are the horrific 
sights you have seen, of atrocities unspeakable, of the corpses of dozens of brave 
Marines, killed in ways so sickening you find it hard to bear, their faces twisted 
in agony from their hellish final moments.  Of the helpless colonists, their souls, 
minds, and bodies shredded by the demonic onslaught.
But it's over now, those demon bastards are now rotting away like overripe tomatoes, 

their asses royally kicked for all time. They had it coming, and you didn't disappoint 
them.	

	As your drop pod nears the station, you have a weird feeling.  Something isn't right. 
 The second the doors open, you realize why.  Your nostrils are instantly filled 
with the nauseating stench of death, of rotting flesh and gore.  Looking about the 
docking bay, you see not a welcoming party, but a scene like something out of Dante's 
"Inferno".  Mutilated corpses litter the floor, and the walls are riddled with bullet 
holes and pocked by scorch marks.  "They" were already here.  Looking at the screens 
all around the room, you are alarmed to notice they say "UAC".  A wall in front of 
you also bears that damnable acronym.  What gives?  Looks like Union Aerospace did 
a bit of renovation to the old place.   Judging from the damage, and lack of control 
personnel, it's a wonder the station is still in orbit.  Oh well.  Looks like the 
end.  Or is it?

	You are alerted to a flashing screen.  You whirl around to stare at it.

	ATTENTION:  ALL SURVIVING MARINE PERSONNEL IN MARS/JOVIAN  	SYSTEM
	
	RENDEVOUS AT PHOBOS FOR IMMEDIATE EVACUATION	
	
	REPEAT, RENDEVOUS-

	The screen goes blank.  The demons must be on to you.  A bloodcurdling scream echoes 
from farther inside the base.  It's the same old song and dance.  It's time to get 
the hell out of Dodge.  No pun intended.  You draw your trusty sidearm, and prepare 
to confront the Hordes.  Good luck, Marine. Next stop; Phobos.

SECTION 2- NEW AND IMROVED TOOLS OF ULTIMATE DESTRUCTION

	Fortunately, this time around you have some more substantial firepower to combat 
the demonic threat.  Here's your assorted tools of Death, and a little bio on each 
one.

COMBAT KNIFE- If this is your last weapon, consider yourself screwed.  It's best 
to simply put your head between you legs and kiss your ass goodbye...but a real Marine 
will press on for some real firepower!

PISTOL- Your trusty sidearm.  Good for lesser enemies, but it just doesn't cut it 
against the real bad guys.  Keep your eyes open for better armament.  Holds up to 
200 shots, as does the Assault Rifle and MiniGun.

ASSAULT RIFLE- Space Marine standard-issue.  A nice find, and it beats the hell out 
of the pistol, and it makes the Knife look as primitive as a wooden club.  Quite 
common.

MINIGUN- The Grim Reaper has been re-incarnated as six barrels of lead-slinging, 
death-dealing mass destruction.  This baby tears demons to itty bitty pieces, and 
can make quick work of even the big baddies.  Somewhat common.

ROCKET LAUNCHER- Ever seen a demon get turned inside out?  Want to?  This particularly 
bad-ass weapon fires a nice high-explosive rocket into your adversaries.  Unfortunately, 
it onlys holds 20 shots, and rocket ammo only gives you 1 rocket, so use them sparingly. 
 It has good range though, and covers a large area with damage.  Just don't fire 
it at close range.  If you feel so inclined to do so, you might as well be shooting 
yourself! More common later on in the game, after about Episode 2.  Ammo is not so 
common, so save this weapon for the real tough bad guys.

PLASMA GUN- A nice experimental energy weapon, delivering a high-density plasma-ionic 
blast.  Considerably slower than the Rocket Launcher, but packs almost just as much 
of a punch.  Also covers a large area, and can effectively eliminate several enemies 
at once.  A rare find, and the ammo is just as rare.  Holds 60 shots.  Only appears 
in Episodes 4 through 6.

SECTION 2.A- STUFF TO HELP YOU ALONG

	Of course, as you progress through the game, you'll need the help of various items. 
 Here's the ones you can expect to see...

MEDICAL STUFF -  Even a tough hombre like you can get your ass grilled if you don't 
try to evade most of the damage headed your way.   If you health drops to 0, you're 
toast,  and have to start again.  Try harder next time!  To avoid your untimely demise, 
collect these items to boost your health.

HEALTH POTION- These small blue bottles give you a meager 4 points of health, but 
can push your health beyond your normal 100%, to a maximum of 200%.  Quite common.


STIMPACK- Known more commonly as Stims, these small packages contain a quick boost 
of steroids and enzymes that give you 10 points of health.  Common.

MEDPACK- These big boxes with straps contain everything you need to repair your wounds. 
 Gives you a pleasing 25 health.  Not so common.

OTHER STUFF- Like in Wolfenstein 3-D, you can drink some types of blood and gibs 
for health.  There's no water this time around, though.

AMMUNITION-  Like you, guns need stuff to make them work properly.  Some ammo is 
much more common than other types.  Rockets are very rare, so save them for only 
the most desperate situations.  Stick with Plasma or the MiniGun for a common-use 
heavy weapon. Here's the "food" for your guns...

AMMO CLIP- This small gray clip gives you 8 bullets if obtained from the level itself. 
 If picked up from a downed enemy, Clips only give you a mere 4 bullets.  Very common.


BOX OF AMMO- Looks like the MedPack, but has a picture of a bullet on it.  Gives 
you a nice 25 bullets when you pick it up.  Slightly common.

ROCKET- A small dark gray rocket.  Gives you 1 ammo for the Rocket Launcher.  If 
you have it, that is.  Not very common.

PLASMA CELL- A small light gray object with red and green coloured lights on it. 
 Gives you 8 shots for the Plasma Gun. Like the Rocket, not very common.

ASSORTED OTHER STUFF-  There's a couple of other items you should be aware of.

KEYCARDS- Open doors.  'Nuff said.  Come in 2 varieties: blue and yellow.

TREASURE- Yep, there's some nice items of value on your travels.  Grab 'em for a 
nice quick boost to your score. 

	Helmet- Gives 100 points.
	Light-Amplification Goggles-Gives you 500 points.
	Blue Skull- Gives you 1000 points!
	Computer Map- Gives you 5000 points!

1 UP- A blue sphere with a picture of the Marine's helmet in it.  Rewards you with 
1 extra life (You can get another life every 40,000 points), as well as an ammo and 
health boost, up to 200% (If your HP doesn't say 200% after obtaining a 1UP, simply 
press the Esc key and then select "Back to Game" from the DWR 2 main menu).  Rare 
as hen's teeth.

INVULERABILITY ARTIFACT- A large, red upside-down cross with a picture of a Space 
Marine's helmet on it.  When it is picked up, it endows you with 30 seconds of invincibility. 
 Be careful...the only indication as to when it wears off is a strange chiming sound 
(like the one when you receive an extra life), so keep your ears open!  Pops up every 
once in a while.

LAND MINES- You can't pick these up, but they can make your life miserable if you 
don't watch out for them.  Sometimes, you may have no choice but to step on them...More 
common later on in the game.

SECTION 3- KNOW YOUR FOE

	These are the guys whose main goal in life is to make yours a living Hell.  Some 
have certain behaviours that you can base strategies around, while others are not 
so predictable...

FORMER HUMAN- Your good old Marine buddies gone bad.  That's bad in smell, and bad 
in nature!  Still as weak as ever.  Makes you wonder how they ever got to be Marines...


FORMER SERGEANT-  They've dropped their good old shotguns for shiny new Assault Rifles. 
 Not nearly as weak as the Former Human, they can kill you very easily if you aren't 
careful...Drops either an Assault Rifle (if you don't already have it) or an Ammo 
Clip when killed.

IMP-  These brown bastards just got bigger and meaner.  They enjoy running circles 
around you and frying your ass with their toasty fireballs.  Give them a nice Plasma 
enema.  Or sit back and chew them into doggy kibble with the MiniGun.  Due to the 
flammable liquids contained inside their scaly hides, they explode violently when 
killed.

LOST SOUL-  This particularly dumb adversary flies headlong towards you, with the 
intent of biting your head off.  Very weak, and usually not a threat except in numbers. 
 And sometimes not even then.

CACODEMON-  This demonic monstrosity belches long streams of white-hot plasma lightning 
at you, in rapid succession, and will turn you into Marine-flambé if you aren't careful. 
Note: does not like being hit by Rockets.  Keep your distance when confronting this 
enemy.

UAC ROBOT DRONES- Apparently, those bastards at UAC were expecting a demon welcome. 
 They left their security drones active, and now the demons have turned them to their 
own sinister wishes.  Be careful, Drones do not make a sound when they realize your 
presence.  The only sound you hear is their guns tearing you to pieces...They don't 
appear until Episode 2.

BOSSES-  At the end of each episode, you'll have to face a member of the demonic 
elite. Be on your guard, Marine! 

Episode One: FORMER COMMANDO-  This S.O.B. enjoys taking pot-shots at you with his 
huge Chaingun.  Very dumb, and doesn't try hard to find you.  Show him how much better 
the Minigun is!

Episode Two: BARON OF HELL-  Everybody's favourite DOOM baddie makes a re-appearance. 
 Lobs green plasma at you, and is quite slick to chase you around a level.

Episode Three: CHAOS KNIGHT-  A demonic automation forged in the deepest pits of 
Hell.  Fires massive rocket and chaingun barrages at you.  You'll have to beat him 
twice to totally vanquish this guy.  Expect to see him quite a few times in the game...


Episode Four: PAIN ELEMENTAL-  That annoying bloated gasbag from DOOM II is back. 
 Only he fires some nice shiny rockets at you instead of Lost Souls.  Still explodes 
like an atomic bomb when killed.

Episode Five: MANCUBUS-  Big 'ol fatty-butt awaits your arrival in Episode 5.  He 
didn't take up that advice to phone Jenny Craig, and now he will pay the price...


Episode Six: ABADDON- The lousy sonofabitch bastard behind all your troubles.  It 
won't be easy to get to him, so brace yourself, Marine.  It's a tough battle ahead!



SECTION 4- NEW FEATURES TO DWR 2

	If you like to cheat your way through Wolf 3-D games, then this is something you 
should know.  Permanent God Mode has been disabled, and the ILM and Tab-I codes don't 
give you all the weapons or full ammo for the ones you already have.  However, if 
you are a real, decent human being, you don't need codes, so this doesn't matter 
to you, does it? Good!

	If you should make it to a secret level, be on the look-out!  There are four indestructible 
enemies (The Pac-Man ghosts) in each of the 6 secret levels, and the demons have 
gotten into them as well!  In case you're wondering, the four new Pac-Man enemies 
are characters from the anime series "Neon Genesis Evangelion", a personal favourite 
of mine.  Just don't get too close to them, or you're kaput!

	"Hey cool!  Anime Pac-Mans!"  BEERKRKKK!!! "AHGHH! I DIED!"

	One more thing...

	Keep your eyes peeled for a secret room in Episode One, Level One.  It contains 
the first appearance of a rather amusing object related to Duke Nukem.  If you know 
how much I love DOOM (Which is a lot!), and have heard of or seen the DOOM Marine 
secret in Duke Nukem 3D, you will see why I made this object.  ^_^  Good luck!  


KNOWN BUGS IN THE GAME

	There's only one real bug in the game that I know of.  Sometimes when you enter 
a level, you can hear the music fade out, and go silent.  If there is no music in 
the level, simply press the Escape button, and select "Back to Game" in the DWR 2 
main menu.  The music should resume playing. If you find any other bugs, please contact 
me (the Great Wasabi) about them, and I will try my best to find a solution.

SECTION 5- CONTACTING THE  AUTHORS

	If you find a mistake or error, want to borrow some graphics/sounds etc., want to 
give us some comments on the game, or just want to shoot the breeze, we can be reached 
at the following e-mail addresses:

THE GREAT WASABI-  wasabi_zero2002@yahoo.ca

MEGA LUIGI-  wolfmegaluigi@yahoo.com.br

MARIO MANIAC-  wolfmaniacbros@yahoo.com.br


VISIT THE DOOM OASIS FORUM!
http://greatwasabi.proboards24.com

Keep the DOOM legacy alive!

http://www.newdoom.com




