

              Wolfenstein and Spear of Destiny FAQ

Wolf3-D and SOD FAQ version 1.0





This is a FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) for Wolfenstein 3-D
and Spear of Destiny. All specific names used in this file are
trademarks: Apogee, FormGen, Wolfenstein 3-D (Wolf3-D or Wolf),
and Spear of Destiny (SOD), etc.


                            CONTENTS

0.0 About Wolfenstein 3-D and SOD
 0.1 What is Wolfenstein 3-D and SOD?
 0.2 What do I need to run Wolf3-D and SOD?
 0.3 Where is Wolfenstein and SOD available?
 0.4 How do I unzip the "zip" file of the game?
 0.5 How is it installed to the hard drive?
 0.6 Is it possible to play Wolfenstein on a floppy disk?
 0.7 Can I cheat in Wolf3D and SOD?
 0.8 How can I contact ID Software or Apogee?
 0.9 Wolf3D for the SNES?

1.0 What you need to know about Wolfenstein
 1.1 What are those guards saying?
 1.2 Is there a special way to find a secret passageway?
 1.3 What are secret floors and how do I find one?
 1.4 Can you kill the ghosts in Wolfenstein?
 1.5 How can you drink blood in Wolfenstein?
 1.6 Is there a way to play the music in Wolfenstein without     
 playing the game?
 1.7 Do the difficulty levels do anything to the game besides add
 guards?
 1.8 When I press Tab+T on SOD why is there a "Death Cam" sprite?
 1.9 What was the first Wolfenstein episode ever made?
 1.10 Who is B.J. Blazkowicz?
 1.11 How did SOD get started?
 1.12 What is the best way to play Wolf3d and SOD?
 1.13 How can I defeat the bosses?
 1.14 How do I access the hidden id picture in SOD?
 1.15 How many points do I get for treasure, kills, par time, and
 100% at the end of the level? 
 1.16 What is the description of each guard and boss?

2.0 The 'Help Me!' section
 2.1 I never get 100% at the end of the level
 2.2 I can never find any ammo
 2.3 I feel like puking when I play it
 2.4 The sounds don't sound right
 2.5 It always crashes
 2.6 I always get lost
 2.7 I am going in circles and I'm not even touching the keyboard
 2.8 Problems with the software
 2.9 Game problems

3.0 Map and graphics editors
 3.1 Map editing programs
 3.2 Some editing pointers
 3.3 Mapping problems
 3.4 Wolfenstein and SOD add-ons

4.0 Future additions to this FAQ

5.0 Revision history

6.0 About this FAQ
 6.1 Copyright
 6.2 Apogee and this FAQ

7.0 Closing






0.0 ABOUT WOLF3-D AND SOD

     0.1 WHAT IS WOLFENSTEIN 3-D AND SOD?

     Wolf3-D and Sod are both "3-D" games. The object is to
survive and not get killed by the Nazis (If you really hate Nazis
than this is the game for you). You can choose four weapons to
use; a knife, pistol, machine gun, and a chain gun. Use your ammo
carefully because you could end up using your knife. If you like
to explore in games and love secrets than this is for you: At
least five secret doors on each floor. Over one hundred secret
doors on one floor in Wolfenstein 3-D where you might find a
weird sprite in the middle of it. This game also features Sound
Blaster/Adlib sound and music support, joystick keyboard or mouse
control, and four difficulty levels. 
     The Wolfenstein 3-D series features six episodes including
the shareware version (episode one), each episode has ten floors,
one secret floor and nine regular floors. You can get the
shareware version of Wolf3-D on Apogee's Software Creation's BBS.
Call Apogee at 1-800-426-3123 for phone numbers and details. The
two registered versions are only available from Apogee or
FormGen. When I wrote the FAQ the price for episodes 1-3 were $35
and if you already have the first three episodes for $20 you can
get the Nocturnal Missions. You CANNOT play episodes 4-6 if you
don't have the first three episodes. You can also buy the full
six episodes for $50.
     Spear of Destiny features one episode (a commercial version)
of twenty one levels. Nineteen regular levels and two secret
levels. If you don't want to get the full game and be
disappointed about buying the game than try the two level demo
available from FormGen. Call 1-800-263-2390 to order the demo
disk. Yes, the demo disk is free for all of you freebies out
there. You know who you are. If you want to buy the full game
than order it from Apogee, FormGen, or buy it from you local
software store. It sells for $35 at the software store and Apogee
and FormGen.
     If you want both Wolf3-D and SOD then order both for $85
from Apogee.

     0.2 WHAT DO I NEED TO RUN WOLF3-D AND SOD?

     In order to run Wolf3-D and SOD you need: 

Computer type- 80286 or better (NOT and XT machine)

Graphics- 256 color VGA or SVGA monitor

Memory- At least 600Kb or better. It also supports Extended or
Expanded memory

Hard Disk space- 1.4Mb for the shareware version
                 2.5Mb for the full six episode version
                 1.3Mb for the SOD demo disk
                 3.1Mb for the full twenty-one levels

DOS version- Just to be safe have at least DOS version 5.0 and
later versions

Running under Microsoft Windows- Running Wolf3-D under Window is
not recommended. The digitized sounds will be screwed up and
sometimes there will be stripes on the status bar.

Disk compression programs- Stacker- yes
                          DOS's Double Space- yes

     0.3 WHERE IS WOLFENSTEIN AND SOD AVAILABLE?

     Wolfenstein and SOD are available from Apogee and FormGen
for $50. You can finally get Wolfenstein 3-D (the six episode
series) in a store. I have seen it in Electronics Boutique,
Babbages, CompUSA, Micro Center, and Software Etc. It sells for
around $45 and I think it includes a hint book. The hint book is
also available from Apogee for $10 if you already have the six
episodes. If you buy Wolfenstein from Apogee for $50 than you get
extra stuff like a bonus game, hint sheet, and cheat codes. I
think these "zip" files of shareware version of Wolf3-D and the
SOD demo version are available on Apogee's home BBS. If these
"zip" files are not right then call Apogee at 1-800-426-3123 to
find the right zip file name:

                 Wolfenstein 3-D episode 1- wolf3d14.zip
                          SOD demo version- soddemo2.zip

     The shareware version of Wolf3-D is also available in
shareware packages. They are usually found in software stores
and Radio Shack.

     0.4 HOW DO I UNZIP THE "ZIP" FILE OF THE GAME?

     In order to unzip a file you need to have pkware's
pkunzip.exe file (available on CompuServe; type GO PKWARE). To
unzip a file, for example, type pkunzip, the directory the file
is in, and then the zip filename. This should unzip the file that
you chose to unzip.

NOTE: PKUNZIP MUST BE IN THE SAME DIRECTORY THAT THE ZIPFILE IS
IN!!!!!

     0.5 HOW IS IT INSTALLED TO THE HARD DRIVE?

     Basically just run the install program. Type INSTALL or
whatever the install program is. Just make sure you have at least
4Mb of hard drive space or the installation program will fail.

     0.6 IS IT POSSIBLE TO PLAY WOLFENSTEIN ON A FLOPPY DISK?

     I am positive that you can play the shareware version and
the SOD demo version on the floppy. You CANNOT play the full six
episodes or the full version of SOD because it won't fit on a 3.5
disk or a 5.25 disk. It might be possible to play it on a disk if
you have the 21 megabyte floptical disk but I personally have
never tried it because I don't have one. I would recommend that
you play it on the hard disk unless you want to pay over two-
hundred bucks.

     0.7 CAN I CHEAT IN WOLF3D AND SOD?


     Sure you can! Just follow these instructions and you have
yourself some major (and minor) cheat codes.

     Regular codes: I, L, M- gives you full health, all the guns,
                    all ammo, and both keys (This will also
                    erase your score and add ten minutes to your
                    time).

                    TAB, G, F10- God mode (invincibility; SOD
                    only)

                    A, B, T- Displays reference to the Commander
                    Keen Cheat. This is also the cheat code for  
                    Commander Keen 4 & 5. I have no idea why this
                    is here.

THE WOLFENSTEIN DEBUG MODE


     For Wolfenstein version 1.0 owners, type wolf3d-next or
wolf3d next at the DOS prompt. For Wolfenstein version 1.1 owners
type wolf3d-goobers or wolf3d goobers. After you have chosen a
game and the difficulty, hold down the TAB, CONTROL, and ENTER
keys for version 1.0 and LEFT SHIFT, ALT, BACKSPACE. You should
get a message saying that the debugging keys are now available.
Now hold down these keys to cheat in Wolfenstein;

Tab+B- changes the border color

Tab+C- Tells you how many actors, statics, and doors there are on
a level

Tab+E- Moves ahead two levels. In Wolf3d version 1.4 and SOD it
only moves ahead one.

Tab+F- Displays your position in the level your are currently on.

Tab+G- "God" mode. You are invincible. Works for both Wolf3d and
SOD. Look at B.J.'s eyes when you access this on SOD.

Tab+H- Commit Suicide. Subtract 16% or 4% health. Basically a
suicide attempt.

Tab+I- Free Items. Gives you machine gun or chaingun, 56 ammo,
full health and one thousand points. In SOD it gives you one
hundred thousand points and an extra life. Sorry, this command
does not give you both keys.

Tab+M- Displays how much memory was used. Got me pumped up.

Tab+N- No clipping. Allows you to walk through walls and
sometimes be invisible to the enemies! This command only works in
SOD and Wolf3d version 1.0.

Tab+O- Displays an overview map of the current level. Only works
in Wolfenstein version 1.0.

Tab+P- Pauses the game without the Paused block. A nice command
for a screen shot.

Tab+Q- Quits the game. Don't use this unless you don't want to
get in trouble with your boss if he walks in.

Tab+S- Slow motion. Just makes the game slower. Makes the game
almost stop in my version of SOD.

Tab+T- Displays all the graphics in the game. If you come to a
blank space keep going if you have the shareware version. If you
have the full version then press space to see the graphic.

Tab+V- Asks you how many VBL's do you want. I don't know what
this does.

Tab+W- Warps to any level. Choose only numbers 1-10 in the
shareware version or 1-2 in the demo version of SOD or the game
will crash.

Tab+X- I don't know what this does. If you do know, then please
tell me.


THE TEDLEVEL COMMAND

     I forgot how to use this but it will send you to a level
that you want to work on.


DEMO RECORDING MODE

     If you want to record a demo then hold down TAB at the
screen where B.J. is hiding from a guard. Pick a level. I don't
know how to play the recorded demo after you record it so if you
know please tell me. On my computer the game crashes after a
while. You must have put the debugging code in at the DOS prompt.

SPEAR OF DESTINY DEBUGGING MODE

     Spear of Destinty's debugging mode is exactly the same as
Wolfenstein's debugging mode except the DOS code.

Just type- spear-debugmode or spear debugmode at the SPEAR
prompt.

     0.8 HOW CAN I CONTACT ID SOFTWARE OR APOGEE?

     If you need technical support for Wolf3d or SOD then call
Apogee at 1-800-426-3123 and the recording will give you the
technical support phone number. The number is not an 800 number
and they will only help you if you have the full six episodes of
Wolf3d or the full version of SOD. They will not help you if you
have the shareware version of Wolf3d or the demo version of SOD.

     0.9 WOLF3D FOR THE SNES?

     Yes, you heard right. Wolfenstein 3-D is coming for the SNES
sometime this year though it should have been out in '93. It
contains a map if you get lost and I think you can have more than
four weapons. I am sorry to say that the US version of the game
has no blood and guts or Hitler posters. That is the Nintendo
policy. The graphic are not as good as the PC though but I have
heard that it is smoother than the PC. If you want a blood and
guts cartridge then go to Japan.

1.0 WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT WOLFENSTEIN

     1.1 WHAT ARE THOSE GUARDS SAYING?


Brown Guard-  Achtung-attention  
              When he dies he screams in about 5 ways

SS-  Schutzstaffel- Elite guard
     Mein leben- My life

Dog- Bark- Bark
     Whine- Whine

Officer- Spion- Spy
         Nein, so was- Well, I never

Zombie- Nothing- Nothing
        Argh- Argh

Ghost of Hitler- Todt hund- Dead dog
                 Hahahahaha- Hahahahaha







WOLFENSTEIN BOSSES-

Hans- Guten Tag- Good Day, or Hello
      Mutti- Mommy

Dr. Schabbs- Oohahahahaha- Oohahahahaha
             Mein Gott in Himmel- My God in Heaven

Hitler- Die, Allied Schweinhund- Die, Allied pigdog
        Scheist- Damn or Sh*t
        Eva, auf Wiedersehen- Good-bye Eva

Otto Giftmacher- Eine kleine Amerikaner- A little American
                 Donner wetter- Good heavens

Greta Grosse- Kein Durchgang- No trespassing
              Mein Busse- My repentance

General Fettgesicht- Erlauben Sie, bitte- Allow me please
                     Roseknospe- Rosebud (From the movie Citizen 
                     Kane for a joke I guess)

SPEAR OF DESTINY BOSSES-

Trans Grosse- Einer Sprachschnitzer- A mistake
              Es ist schade- What a pity

Barnacle Wilhelm- Ach so- Oh, I see
                  Wenn schon- So what

Ubermutant- Nothing- Nothing
            Argh- Argh

Death Knight- Tod ist mein leben- Death is my life
              Alles ist verloren- All is lost

Angel of Death- Prove your worth human
                You may wield the spear...

 1.2 IS THERE A SPECIAL WAY TO FIND A SECRET PASSAGEWAY?

     Finding a secret passageway is a job for a explorer. One way
to find a secret passageway is to lean at an angle on a long
wall, hold SPACE and press forward and you will search the wall.
Some secret passageways are obvious. Some obvious passageways
would be a poster, a room with guards but no treasure, ammo, or
guns, or the wall between two objects (two trees or two lamps).
Other passageways will be almost anywhere.

HINT: In SOD, there is a secret passageway in the room you begin
the game in. In Wolfenstein episode one, level one there are five
secret passageways.

     1.3 WHAT ARE THE SECRET FLOORS AND HOW DO I FIND ONE?

     Secret floors are floors that have the accessible elevator
in a hidden passage. They are not required to be played but if
you don't play them you won't get 100% on kills, treasure, or
secret passageways at the end of the game. The secret floors are
a little bit harder on the Wolfenstein episodes but I found them
a lot harder of SOD. There is one secret floor per game in the
Wolfenstein episodes and two in Spear of Destiny. There is no par
time, kill, secret passageway, or treasure ratio at the end of
the secret level, but you do get 15000 points for discovering the
secret floor. The secret level is called level ten in Wolfenstein
and levels nineteen and twenty in SOD.

HINT: The secret floors in SOD are located on floors four and
twelve. For Wolfenstein episodes one and two, the secret floors
for them are both located on level one!

     1.4 CAN YOU KILL THE GHOSTS IN WOLFENSTEIN?

     Yes and no. You can kill the ghosts in SOD but not in
Wolfenstein. In SOD the ghosts are in the last floor where you
have to kill the Angel of Death. You can kill those and you will
get 200 points for killing them. But be careful because they will
appear again and will go after you again. There are also some
Pacman type ghosts in Wolfenstein episode three in the secret
floor. You cannot kill these but they will kill you. One
advantage is that you can walk right through these ghosts. They
are very stupid looking and should have been left out. There is
one more type of ghost which is Hitler's Ghost. He shoots out red
spheres at you and can be killed. Hitler's Ghosts are on the boss
floor on episode three.

     1.5 HOW CAN YOU DRINK BLOOD IN WOLFENSTEIN?

     If you have the Spear of Destiny Hint Book you should
already know how to drink blood but I will tell those who don't
know. In order to drink blood and eat the bloody skeletons, use
the Tab+H to lower your health below 10%. Don't lower it too much
or you will die. Then walk over a blood pool or a bloody skeleton
and it will add 1% to your health.

     1.6 IS THERE A WAY TO PLAY THE MUSIC IN WOLFENSTEIN WITHOUT
     PLAYING THE GAME?

     The option to play the music without playing the game is
called "Roberts Jukebox." The Jukebox feature was named after
Robert Prince (the designer of Wolfenstein's music). To activate
the Jukebox just press and hold down the "M" key when the memory
screen shows up after you press ENTER after you typed in wolf3d
at the DOS prompt. There are three music menus in Wolfenstein and
one in Spear of Destiny. One of the tunes in Wolfenstein plays a
Morse Code message in the background.

     1.7 DO THE DIFFICULTY LEVELS DO ANYTHING TO THE GAME BESIDES
     ADD GUARDS?

     The difficulty levels do more things besides add more guards
to a floor. On the easy level of difficulty you can easily kill a
brown guard in on shot. On the "Death Incarnate" level it would
take about two or three shots to kill a brown guard. Also you
take more damage on the harder difficulty levels. I thinks that
the first aid kit adds more health on the lower difficulty
levels.

     1.8 WHEN I PRESS TAB+T ON SOD WHY IS THERE A 'DEATH CAM'
     SPRITE?

     I really don't know. It may encourage you to buy the
original Wolfenstein episodes. Also there is a wall figure that
looks like a green and blue yin-yang. That is not on SOD either.

     1.9 WHAT WAS THE FIRST WOLFENSTEIN EPISODE EVER MADE?

     The original Wolfenstein was made for the Apple computer. It
was called Castle Wolfenstein. It was created by MUSE Software
and was written by Silas Warner. It was made in the early '80's 
and had digitized voices. The story was that you were in a prison
and an injured prisoner gives you a gun he's taken from a guard
and tells you that he can't make it but maybe you can. The castle
holds the plans for Operation Rheingold. You can search guards
and shoot chests. I played it and I couldn't find out what to do.
It isn't a 3D game or virtual reality but you do have a birds eye
view of the room you are in. It isn't a game that I would
recommend.

     1.10 WHO IS B.J. BLAZKOWICZ?

     B.J. was born on August 15, 1911 to Polish immigrants. He
became a top spy for the Allies and the most durable soldier. He
received the Congressional Medal of Honor. B.J was married after
World War II, at the age of forty, to Julia Marie Peterson. They
had a son named Arthur who became a talk show personality for
Milwaukee. Arthur changed his last name to Blaze (I wonder why)
and married Elizabeth McMichaels. They had a son and named him
William. (And they lived happily ever after. The End)

     1.11 HOW DID SOD GET STARTED?

     SOD got started by a DC Comic's special comic book called
Justice Society. It probably gave id software the idea for the
game Spear of Destiny. They used the storyline and created a
game.

     1.12 WHAT IS THE BEST WAY TO PLAY WOLF3D AND SOD?

     Here are some tips when playing Wolf3d and SOD:

Shoot the guards in the back. Shooting a guard in the back will
cause double the damage.

Don't use the chaingun when you are low on ammo.

Move over health when you are in a hot fire fight. If your health
gets low then You can quickly raise it.

Use the keyboard and mouse at the same time.

Search rooms for secret passageways. Sometimes there can be a
secret passageway in a secret passageway!

Don't stand in the door when there are guards in the room. Open
the door, shoot your gun, and back up and kill them as they come
out.

Don't shoot dogs or officers at long ranges. Shoot them when they
are close to you or you probably will miss them.

Sometimes you will find an enemy in the elevator.

Don't rush in a room full of guards if you only have a knife. You
will never make it out alive. Search for ammo.

Every floor has hidden goodies; treasure, 1ups, ammo, and guns.
Remember that every 40,000 points you can an extra man.

Save your game often.

If you shoot a guard or boss at close range than you will do more
damage.

DON'T PRESS I, L, M!!!!!!

     1.13 HOW CAN I DEFEAT THE BOSSES?

     Sometimes there will be walls for you to hide. Be careful
about the missile carrying bosses. The missiles will damage you
the
same when you are close to him or far away. Just peek and shoot,
peek and shoot, peek and shoot.

SPECIFIC SOD BOSS STRATEGIES

Trans Grosse- Trans Grosse guards the way to the Dungeons. He
uses two chainguns.

Get the chaingun in the secret passageway in the left passage way
when you start the level.



W= wall
P= secret passageway
C= chaingun
O= you
E= elevator wall



W                WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW
W                W                 W
W                W                 W
W                W                 W
W                EEEEEE            W
W                E O  E            W
W                EEEEEE            W
W                W                 W
W                W                 W
W                W                 W
W                WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW
W
W
W                WWWWWWWWWWWWWPPWWWW
W                WWWWWWWWWWWC   WWWW
W                WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW


When you enter the room inside the three doors be careful or the
SS will shoot you in the back. Kill all the guards and SS and
then enter the boss room where Trans Grosse lives. The boss will
see you so go right until you come to a room with four SS. The
room is NOT behind a door. Keep looking to see if the boss is
coming towards you. Search the room until a secret passageway is
revealed. Lure Trans Grosse in the passageway because there is
health there. Blast him out of his socks as you move over the
health. Keep doing this until he is dead. If you decide to
explore the floor before you exit, then don't fall for deadly
pink-brick wall death trap unless you have a chaingun, plenty of
ammo to wipe out seven SS, or God Mode. Happy killing!




Barnacle Wilhelm- Barnacle Wilhelm guards the way to the Main
Castle. He uses a chaingun and a missile launcher.

In order to defeat Barnacle Wilhelm, you first have to get the
silver keys to enter his lair. After you have found the key and
have gone into the Barnacle room, kill all of the guards, SS, and
officers in the slots in the wall. Then you can finish Wilhelm
off while hiding behind the wall blocks.



Ubermutant- Ubermutant guards the way to the Ramparts. He has
only one chaingun but is VERY fast.

To defeat Ubermutant, you must find the key to get inside the
Uber-chamber is. When you open the locked door push the secret
passageway and then open the door on the left. Wipe out all of
the guards and get some health and ammo before opening the door
to the steel chamber. After you get the health and ammo only then
you may open the door. Make sure that Ubermutant sees you and
run, not walk, outside into the hallway where you started the
level on and dodge between the walls and fire upon him. If he
finds his way out of the chamber of you lead him out then you
should try to get back into the chamber or take your chances and
finish him off.



Death Knight- Death Knight guards the way to the Spear and the
Death Dimension. He uses two chainguns and two missile launchers.

To defeat Death Knight then get the chaingun and ammo boxes when
you are brave enough to get out of the elevator. Enter the Death
Knight's lair and head to the left seeking the door (there's one
less mutant on this side). Go out the door and toast the officers
and the SS and go left for ammo and right for health. Now get rid
of his helpers and chip away at him through an open door (the
missiles will probably hit the side of the door). After you kill
the Death Knight then open the locked door, touch the Spear and
now you have just beaten the game!!!!! NOT!



The Angel of Death- The Angel of Death is the guardsman of the
Spear. He uses green spheres of holy fire.

To defeat the Angel of Death you must first find the chaingun.
Then if your duel with Death Knight lowered your health a little
then GET SOME! As soon as the Angel sees you then wait until he
shoots three spheres. As he rests blast him in the face. When you
kill him then try to kill some ghosts before the five seconds you
have left before the game is over run out. There this time you
DID beat the game.     1.14 HOW DO I ACCESS THE HIDDEN ID PICTURE IN SOD?

     To access the hidden picture of the ID crew then go to
change view and change the view once. After you press ENTER then
quickly hold down the "I" and the "D" keys. You will see a
picture with weird music playing. Read the message for some
laughs.

     1.15 HOW MANY POINTS DO I GET FOR TREASURE, KILLS, PAR TIME,
     AND 100% AT THE END OF THE LEVEL?


     Each usable item (sprite) in Wolfenstein and Spear of
Destiny serves a purpose in the game. Other sprites such as
guards and bosses are for gaining points (and killing you).

POINTS

Brown Guard- 100 points
Dog- 200 points
SOD ghost- 200 points
Officer- 400 points
SS Stormtrooper- 500 points
Zombie- 700 points
Hitler's Ghost- 2000 points
Each boss- 5000 points
Cross- 100 points
Chalice- 500 points
Chest- 1000 points
Crown- 5000 points
100% completed- 10000 points
Score for boss level in SOD- 15000 points
Score for secret level completed- 15000 points
Score for pressing Tab+I in SOD- 100000 points
Score for pressing Tab+I in Wolf3d- 1000 points
Score for one second below par time- 500 points

AMMO

Ammo from dead guard- 4
Unused ammo- 8
Ammo box in SOD- 25
Extra life bubble- 25
Ammo for pressing Tab+I- 56

HEALTH

Health for chicken dinner- 10%
Health for First Aid- 25%
Health for dog food- 4%
Health for blood and bones- 1%
Health for extra life bubble- 100%
Health for pressing Tab+I- 100%


OTHER ITEMS

Chaingun- Shoots two bullets. Rapid fire.
Machine gun- Shoots one bullet. Rapid fire.
Gold key- Opens locked doors that need a gold key.
Silver key- Opens locked doors that need a silver key.
Extra life bubble- full health, 25 ammo and one life.



     1.16 WHAT IS THE DESCRIPTION OF EACH GUARD AND BOSS?

Brown Guard- Guards can be very effective if they are fighting in
groups. They are very vulnerable if they are fighting in pairs or
solitary. Although they wear no body armor and can be killed in
one or two shots and can be picked off like fleas in long range
shots. They are slow to react and only carry a pistol. Using a
chaingun on brown guards is NOT recommended.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS TO KILL- One or two.

Dog- These German shepherds go right for your throat. The dogs
will move from side to side hoping for you to miss them when
shooting. A single stab with the knife will kill a dog and their
bite takes away about 6-10% health away. These dogs are not
menacing.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS TO KILL- One stab with the knife.

SS Stormtrooper- The SS (full name of the SS is the SS
Stromtrooper) wear bullet-proof vests and carry a machine gun.
They can almost never be surprised and when they come in packs of
ten or twelve I suggest that you look for ammo before you mess
with these fellows. One SS can be a threat to you. If he shoots
you in close range you will probably find yourself at the
beginning of the level again.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS TO KILL- Five.

Officer- These smart soldiers walk as fast as dogs and shoot
twice as fast! Although they carry a pistol and a light vest, two
or three shots from them will bring you down. These smart
soldiers act like the dogs, moving left and right swiftly and
draining you of your ammunition.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS TO KILL- Three.

Zombie- A zombie, often called a mutant, are reincarnated
soldiers who have lost their lives in the past. The maniac
doctor, Dr. Schabbs (wonder why they called him that), has been
bringing the soldiers back from the dead to make an undead army.
They have a pistol embedded in their chest. They wear no body
armor but they can take almost as much damage as the SS.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS TO KILL- Three or four.

Ghost of Hitler- Sorry. I don't have a description for this enemy
at the moment. It will be here in a later version of this FAQ.

White Ghosts of the Death Dimension- These ghosts are guards for
the Angel of Death. They are deadly to the touch and can kill you
in about three seconds. They are slow and can be stopped in a
single shot but in about twenty seconds they will reappear.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS TO KILL- One stab with the knife.

Hans- Sorry. I don't have a description for this enemy at the
moment. It will be here in a later version of this FAQ.

Dr. Schabbs- Sorry. I don't have a description for this enemy at
the moment. It will be here in a later version of this FAQ.

Hitler- Sorry. I don't have a description for this enemy at the
moment. It will be here in a later version of this FAQ.

Otto Giftmacher- Sorry. I don't have a description for this enemy
at the moment. It will be here in a later version of this FAQ.

Gretta Grosse- Sorry. I don't have a description for this enemy
at the moment. It will be here in a later version of this FAQ.

General Fettgesicht- Sorry. I don't have a description for this
enemy at the moment. It will be here in a later version of this
FAQ.

Trans Grosse- Make sure you have a lot of ammo and a chaingun
when
your fighting this guy. He's got two chainguns.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS TO KILL- Forty.

Barnacle Wilhelm- This boss shoots a missile launcher and a
chaingun. The combination of short and long range attack make
Barnacle difficult to defeat.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS TO KILL- Eighty.

Ubermutant- Ubermutant is Dr. Schabbs most prized creation. With
four butcher knives in each of his four arms, nimble legs, and a
chaingun in his chest make this the ultimate zombie.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS TO KILL- Eighty.

Death Knight- Death Knight wields two chainguns and two missile
launchers making him the toughest boss you have ever faced. His
body armor covers all of his body except his face. This guy
proves to you that a spoon full of sugar DOESN'T make the
medicine go down!
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS TO KILL- Eighty

Angel of Death- To protect the Spear, Hitler made a blood pact
with the Angel of Death telling the Angel that he could have the
souls of his Nazi soldiers. In return the Angel guards the Spear
for as long as Hitler is alive.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHOTS-???2.0 THE 'HELP ME!' SECTION

     2.1 I NEVER GET 100% AT THE END OF THE LEVEL

     You probably never get 100% because there are sometimes some
dogs or guards running around on the level. You may have missed a
few secret passageways where guards are hiding. If you don't get
100% on secret passageways then here is a ways to find some (see 

section 1.2): Lean a little bit at an angle on a long wall. Hold
forward, SHIFT, and SPACE. This will search a wall foe a secret
passageway. There are obvious places like between two objects and
a banner or a poster. For those with treasure problems, (for you
people who don't the extra life bubble because they don't need
it) the extra life bubble counts as treasure. Forget a bubble and
you don't get 100%. There are also treasure in secret
passageways.

     2.2 I CAN NEVER FIND ANY AMMO

     If you can never find any ammo then try to find a secret
passageway (see section 1.2). Grab the ammo after you have killed
a guard. Also, if you toast an SS, you get a free machine gun. If
you can't find any ammo and you are stuck with your knife, just
cheat (see section 0.7). If you hate to cheat then that's your
problem.

     2.3 I FEEL LIKE PUKING WHEN I PLAY IT

     This is not rare. I played it on a 386 and the movement was
choppy. It made me want to throw up and it hurt my eyes so bad I
stopped playing. It is sort of like a motion sickness. Here are
some suggestions:

1. Try different display sizes.

2. Move away from the monitor if you have a joystick or a long
keyboard wire.

3. Don't play so long. Play in little twenty minute rounds.

4. Turn your Turbo switch (If you have one) on or off. This
should make it less choppy.

5. Playing with the sound off improves game play. It had no
effect on me though.

     2.4 THE SOUNDS DON'T SOUND RIGHT

     If you have some sound problems here are a few pointers that
might help:

1. You might not have a compatible sound board. Wolfenstein and
Spear of Destiny only support Sound Blaster, Sound Blaster Pro,
Adlib, Disney Sound Source, or a 100% compatible.

2. You may need to change your Sound Blaster default addresses.

3. You may need to set the right IRQ, address, or DMA number.
     IRQ numbers- 12, 15, 17. Default is 17.
     Address numbers- A210, A220, A230, A240, A250, A260. Default
     is A220.
     DMA numbers- D0, D1, D3. Default is D1.

Try the default values first.

     2.5 IT ALWAYS CRASHES

     You might have a memory problem. Here are some tips:

1. Remove your TSR programs.

2. Load DOS high.

3. Use Expanded memory or Extended memory.

     2.6 I ALWAYS GET LOST

     Sometimes you're on a role. You have both keys and all the
guns and then suddenly you say, "Hey, haven't I already been
here!" or, "How do I get out of here?" Sound familiar? Here are
some pointers to keep yourself from getting lost; try to follow
the dead bodies back to where the beginning of the maze was,
cheat, try to find shortcuts (secret passageways can take you to
another part of a game). If these pointers don't work then make
some up for yourself.

     2.7 I'M GOING IN CIRCLES AND I'M NOT EVEN TOUCHING THE
     KEYBOARD

     Configure your joystick. Sometimes the joystick is
configured wrong. You may have not followed the directions
properly. You may have something pressing on your joystick (a
book, your hand, etc). Take it off. You may need to adjust your
joystick.

     2.8 PROBLEMS WITH THE SOFTWARE

1. The game hangs
     -Get rid of the TSR programs.

2. Game has strips on the status bar.
     -You have mixed versions of the VSWAP.??? file.
     -You probably running it under Windows. Don't run under
     Windows.

3. The game stops running and hangs at the "Get Psyched" screen.
     -Probably have some mixed WL1, WL3, or WL6 files.

4. Game works fine but all I see are screwed graphics.
     -You probably forgot to put an entrance to the level when
     you were mapping.
     -You tried to get the registered version of the game by
     going over ten using the Tab+W cheat.

5. Game hangs or the computer resets when I'm playing.
     -You probably have used a lot of programs before you played
     this game. You probably Expanded or Extended memory.

6. The sounds don't sound like they are supposed to.
     -You are probably running Wolfenstein under Windows. Don't
     run it under Windows. Running the game under Windows also
     makes the game very choppy and slow.

     2.9 GAME PROBLEMS

     Some of the guards in the room disapear.
     -You put too many guards in that room when editing. You may
     have to emit some guards

     When I press Tab-T there is a blank space when I scroll
     through the graphics
     -If you have the shareware version or the demo version of
     the game then this is no problem for you. If you have the
     full registered version of Wolf3d and the full version of
     SOD then press SPACE at a blank spot. If you do this in the
     shareware version or the demo version it will not show up or
     the game will crash. (Wolfenstein and SOD both have great
     graphic. Sorry for all you non-registered users out there)     3.0 MAP AND GRAPHICS EDITORS

     3.1 MAP EDITING PROGRAMS

     Mapedit version 4.1- Edits Wolfenstein maps. Not for use
with SOD.

     Mapedit version 6.0- Bugs from version 4.1 fixed. Has help.
Compatible with SOD.

     Wolfmap- Version conversion, level copier, can print maps,
and NOT compatible with SOD.

     Wolfedit- Lets you edit Wolfenstein maps and edit images of
guards and walls. Will not read SOD files.

     3.2 SOME EDITING POINTERS

     None of the mapping programs are supported by Apogee or id
software. DON NOT call Apogee or id software when you have a
editing problem. They do not like this and will not assist you.


1. Test your work often before you are finished editing.

2. Save your work often.

3. The elevators should be east and west or the elevator door
will allow you to walk through the wall on the left or right and
open the door from the side.

4. Walking guards and dogs need to have arrows or they will just
walk but not go anywhere.

5. Don't put over 399 objects on a level (objects are not guards
secret passageways or arrows. They are considered actors).

6. Number of actors are limited to 149. This includes dead
guards.

7. Don't use registered graphics in the shareware version unless
you have the registered version.

8. You must have a starting place, one treasure, one secret
passageway, one guard, and an elevator.

9. Too many guards will cause some of them to disappear.

     3.3 MAPPING PROBLEMS

     Forgot an entrance to the level.
     You can't moves and the graphics will be screwed.

     Too many guards.
     Wolfenstein will crash.

     Put too many static objects in.
     Wolfenstein will crash.

     Put too many doors on a level.
     Wolfenstein will crash. Again.

     Put registered graphics in shareware episode.
     The graphics will not show up in the game.

     3.4 WOLFENSTEIN AND SOD ADD-ONS

     Here are some add-ons for the shareware and registered
version of Wolfenstein and SOD. Some are compatible for both and
some are only compatible for one. I will tell you where to find
them and the description of each one in the next version of this
FAQ. Here they are-

     map1- v1.0 shareware
     wlfnwmap- v1.0 shareware
     newwmap- v1.0 shareware
     wolfmap- v1.0 shareware
     wolf316- v1.1 registered
     darkmap1- v1.0 shareware
     insanity- v1.1 registered
     wolfbonk- v?.? shareware

Well, that's it for now. I will add more in each version of the
FAQ.4.0 FUTURE ADDITIONS TO THE FAQ

Wolfenstein Boss Strategy- Specific tips on how to beat each boss
in Wolfenstein (Maybe)
Wolfenstein Add-On descriptions
More add-ons and graphics
How to get different version numbers of Wolfenstein
Secret floor tips

5.0 Revision History

Version 1.0
 -First time FAQ was written (February 9, 1994)

6.0 ABOUT THIS FAQ

     6.1 COPYRIGHT

     I am the author and writer of the "Wolfenstein and Spear of
Destiny FAQ." You may distribute this FAQ as long as it is
complete and untouched, the distributer must give credit to the
author and writer; David DeMar, it is in electronic form, and
this FAQ is not included in a magazine, book, catalog, etc.

     6.2 APOGEE AND THIS FAQ

     Id software, FormGen, or Apogee had nothing to do with this
FAQ. Everything from this FAQ come from game magazines,
Wolfenstein hint files, experimenting of the game, and
information contained in the game. I am sorry if there is any
false information in this FAQ. If you find a mistake in this FAQ
file then you can contact me by CompuServe mail at this address-
73404,2474

7.0 CLOSING

     This FAQ was written by a 13 year-old who loves the IBM PC
and computer games. He would love to write an article in a
magazine for a game so if you are interested then leave him a
note on CompuServe at his mailing address- 73404,2474.  This FAQ
will be revised about every month.