(Supplemental to the Read This! section of the game manual):

En route to his mission, BJ Blazcowicz was informed that the source of the radio 
transmission was Henry Irons, with whom BJ had begun his career in black ops. Irons 
had been sent to find George Herman, whose capture and subsequent execution had been 
confirmed by a captured Officer, who had been persuaded to divulge certain secrets. 


"Why call me out of retirement, when you put Irons on the job?", asked BJ. "Did they 
get him, too?".

"We're not sure.", said the colonel. "When we last heard from him, Irons had successfully 
negotiated the first two locations, but was only a third of the way to completing 
the mission. We want you to follow him. This mission is too important to put all 
of our eggs in one basket".

"Irons is a good man", said BJ. "He shouldn't need my help".

"Yes, he is a good man, but he's reckless at times, and overly brave.", said the 
colonel.

"Sir,", said BJ, "in my opinion, it's not possible to be overly brave.".

"I have faith in him too,", said the colonel, "but faith has limits. One of you must 
complete this mission. We don't care which of you it is.".

"No, sir, you never did.", said BJ, who had difficulty hiding his contempt for the 
colonel. "I'll be sure to pass on your regards to Henry when I see him next.".

"Irons was quite detailed in his transmission.", said the colonel. "He's reached 
his objectives so far without attracting too much attention. He's secured two areas 
that we know of, without suffering any wounds. For some reason, he doesn't like to 
use the Weapons we designed for this mission unless it's absolutely necessary. Only 
a fool battles Mutants with a Knife."

"Henry likes to travel light.", said BJ. "He and Molly have been together for a long 
time.".

"I thought his wife's name was Katie", said the colonel.

"Her name is Katie, colonel sir. That's not what I meant." was BJ's reply.

"Here's the transcript of his radio transmission.", said the colonel. He seems to 
have written it as he completed each floor. We haven't heard anything from him after 
he emerged from Mom's Favorite Store.".

"When was that?", asked BJ.

"About four days ago.", said the colonel.

"Give him time," said BJ. "Henry can look after himself. I still don't know why you 
need me for this.".

"That's my call, Blazcowicz", said the colonel. "I think he needs backup". 

"I'll back him up,", said BJ, "but I don't think he needs it. Now give me that report, 
sir, and I won't need any more backup from you.".