BJ Blazcowicz was in the mess hall when an excited Corporal burst into the room with 
important news.

"Sir," he said, "the Colonel has received intel from Lieutenant Commander Irons, 
by messenger. It appears that his radio is no longer functional. Some of the message 
was written in blood. You're to report for briefing in five minutes!".

BJ looked to the corporal and said: "This messenger, did he have different colored 
feet? and what was the blood type used in the message?".

The Corporal was visibly confused by the questions, and replied: "I... don't know, 
sir.". BJgestured with his eyes towards the exit, and the Corporal understood that 
he had been given an order.

Moments later, the Corporal returned, and said: "Sir, with reference to the messenger, 
the answer is affirmative, and there were three blood types used in the note, O+, 
O-, and B-."

"Things must be rough, if he's had to use Balthazar this early.", said BJ. 

The Corporal was still confused. "Balthazar, sir?" he said.

"The messenger, son. Balthazar is a homing pigeon, Irons' finest. Things must be 
tense, if he's had to use him already. As for the blood, there's nothing to worry 
about. Henry's A+. He'd never use his own, not when there's dogs about. Knowing Henry, 
I'm sure there's plenty of blood to be found. He's probably using one of Balthazar's 
feathers as his pen. Henry always was a traditionalist.".

BJ wiped his mouth, bussed his tray, and followed the Corporal to the briefing room, 
where the Colonel, his staff sergeant, and a General, whom BJ had not previously 
met, were waiting. The Colonel rose and said: "We've heard from Irons. It seems that 
his radio was destroyed while securing the fourth enclave, so he'll be unable to 
communicate with us further. Here are the notes he sent. They're addressed to you. 
We're sending you in to back him up."

"Please tell Jeff to gas my Jeep, Colonel. I'll meet him at the motor pool in ten 
minutes.". With that, BJ, left the briefing room, and went to grab his gear.

The General shook his head left and right, and said: "A pigeon. A goddamned pigeon. 
Who uses a bloody pigeon these days? Brilliant.".
