Excerpt from Stars & Stripes, February 17, 2006:

Obituaries:

Irons, Henry C., Lt-Cmr (FC)

Peacefully in his sleep, in his 105th year. Survived by four grand children and eleven 
great grandchildren. Predeceased by wife Katie and three sons, BJ, and twins Herman 
and Harmon.
 
Henry Conan Irons was born June 21, 1901 in Chicago, Illinois, the son of an Irish 
policeman father and an Apache Indian mother. Irons' mother died in childbirth, and 
he claimed that this gave him the power of two people throughout his life. Irons 
attended Yale University for one year in 1919-20, and is believed to have been the 
first freshman to decline a Tap from the Skull and Bones secret society. In his sole 
year at Yale, Irons played Fullback and Defensive End for the undefeated Yale Bulldogs, 
as well as handling placekicking duties. He led the Nation in scoring, and was named 
a finalist as national player of the year, receiving two first place votes.

Irons enlisted in the Marine Corps in 1920, and has the rare distinction of having 
been promoted directly to corporal upon graduation from basic training. Throughout 
much of the 1920's, Irons served as a roving instructor at various domestic military 
bases as an expert in hand-to-hand combat. In 1933, he was named third in command 
of an eight member elite commando unit known as The Scorpion Squad, who reported 
directly to President Roosevelt. Details of the Scorpion Squad's activities from 
1933-1936 remain classified, but they are thought to have participated in clandestine 
missions in Central and South America during the so called 'Banana Wars'. 

The Scorpion Squad was disbanded in early 1937, following an ill conceived attempt 
to assassinate Adolph Hitler, code named Operation Ajax, which resulted in the deaths 
of three members, including team leader, Lt. Irwin "Buzz" Roberts, and second-in-command 
Clayton Harris. Irons assumed command of the mission, and was granted a Field Commision 
to the rank of Lieutenant-Commander. Although he was offered the rank of Colonel 
following this mission, Irons steadfastly refused this, or any future offers of promotion, 
but kept his Field Commission.

Few details of his actions from 1937-1948 have yet been declassified, but he is believed 
to have seen extensive action in the European theatre, both pre and post war. 

Irons retired from the Marine Corps in 1948, and moved to a ranch near Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, where he raised thoroughbred race horses well into his 80's. The Irons' 
horses were known for their endurance, and his stables sired four winners of the 
Belmont Stakes between 1953 and 1981, in addition to multiple high profile stakes 
race winners at longer than average distances.

In 1986, Irons was hired as a story consultant by director John McTiernan for the 
feature film Predator. His recollections of events from both the Banana Wars, and 
his European missions from 1937 to 1948, formed much of the basis for Shane Black's 
screenplay. It is believed that the character of Billy Sole in the film is based 
on Irons himself.

A strapping 6 foot 4, 235 pounds in his prime, Irons is also believed to have been 
among artist-writer Frank Miller's inspirations for the character "Marv" in the Sin 
City graphic novels series. 

In 1992, at the age of 90, Irons became the oldest person to complete the Boston 
Marathon, finishing in a time of 2 hours, 59 minutes, 53 seconds. 

Full military honors are to be extended at his funeral, with interment at Arlington 
Memorial Cemetary. The family has requested donations to the American Cancer Foundation, 
in lieu of flowers.

Henry's epitaph, carved on his gravestone:

"Any punk can fire from across the room, but it takes a man to get close enough to 
stab." - Chris Rock, 1998.