Floor 1:

It's always nice to start the day with a Mutant-free floor. It lets you work up a 
bit of a sweat before breakfast, without overexertion so early in the day.

I found it necessary to be able to stab around both the left and right corners of 
doorways. The SS are more dangerous when you attack them from the left side, because 
the barrels of their guns always come out on the right. There were several places 
where I had to fight multiple opponents face-to-face, rather than as they emerge 
from a room. Sorry, mate, I kept the Silver Key, but I let you know where it was. 


In the first part of the Gold Key area, watch out for the second SS on the right, 
in front of a sink. He'll react to action behind him. The other three are oblivious. 
Take them right, left, right, left, and you'll have no problem here.

One shot should be enough for the dog at the start. I circled the perimeter a couple 
of times, but there were Treasure and Secrets that I couldn't find.

Floor 2:

It's pretty smooth sailing until you catch sight of some Officers behind green oil 
drums, and the Gold Key is in their midst. [This scenario is saved in the Shooting 
Gallery folder as Shoot the Officers.]. In fact, it is possible to kill all of the 
Officers and all of the Mutants in the adjoining green oil drum room with the Knife. 
I bagged two Mutants the hard way, before finding that there is an easier way to 
do the deed.

If you want to waste a lot of bullets, you can strafe the Officers as you come into 
the room, then take your chances with the Mutants. If you wish to be conservative 
with your Ammo, however, the following might work:

Run quickly across, in front of the Officers behind oil drums, and grab cover beside 
the door to the next room, where many Mutants are waiting, but not right near the 
doorway. Move along the side of the wall, towards the Officers. One will come right 
to the edge; you can see at least half of his body. Neither of you are able to shoot 
at this angle, but your Knife will fit just fine through the gap between the wall 
and this last green oil drum on your right.

The Mutants in the next room are dug in like wood ticks. You need to enter the room, 
advance up a bit, and make them follow you, which isn't easy. You have to bring them 
back a little at a time, and each time, they're closer when you duck in to the room 
to bring them out further. They also fire with surprising accuracy from long range. 
If you stay put, they can hit you from near the top of the room, in the gap between 
the wall and the green oil drums on the left side of that room. I pulled two or three 
of them back through two rooms. This procedure must be repeated several times, if 
you want to complete this section with a cold gun. 

I did the first two Mutants the hard way, meaning that I hadn't cleared the Officers 
first. The last couple of Mutants were especially feisty brutes. Molly kissed them 
many times, and I needed to move closer several times before the buggers bit the 
dust. 

Many of the opponents, mostly SS, that occupy the room just beyond the Gold Key door 
can be lured back to a spot very close to the entry elevator. Just look across the 
doorway from the MP-60 I left you. Watch out for the two Officers waiting behind 
a false panel in the exit elevator. One will announce himself before the Secret is 
pushed. The elevator panel on the right hand side, immediately inside the door, will 
also bring you up to number 3. I don't know if the Officers would follow you up. 
It's too late to ask them.

In the green oil drum Mutant room, there's a secret on the right side wall. I think 
there's six Mutants up there, guarding a BJ bubble. I don't think they can be taken 
with the blade. There's just no way to get close to them, and they spread out and 
attack together if you single one out. I used 43 shots from the MP-60 to drop the 
lot. It's not very efficient, I know, but I have my Health to think about. Some may 
consider avoiding this area entirely.

Floor 3:

There's a hidden elevator just to the left of the regular one.  Otherwise, unremarkable. 
One each for the dogs.

Floor 10:
There's a long, sweeping brown stone room leading to the Gold Key. The place is crawling 
with Officers. You'll see the first batch on your left, behind some barrels. Early 
on, you will have the opportunity to engage them in single combat, but further on, 
they tend to congregate in groups of two to four. They are all reluctant to leave 
their posts, but they can be convinced, if you let them have a prolonged look at 
you. Don't retreat too far, however, or they will return to their posts, but they'll 
be waiting for you. There are several corners where they can be had, provided that 
you can split them up, and take them on one at a time. Be prepared to draw some of 
them all the way back to the entrance to the room. If you can secure this area, the 
batch of SS guarding the Gold Key shouldn't pose much of a threat.

Watch out for up to four rogue SS who'll be milling about the entrance to the brown 
stone room once you have acquired the Gold Key. They may hide in the Secret area 
near the Gold Key doors, if you have discovered that one previously, (it's to your 
advantage to have done so).

There is a Silver Key room very close to where the Silver Key itself is located. 
Expect multiple SS to come out on their own, once word spreads that you have the 
Silver Key. They mostly do solo reconaissance, but a few come in pairs. They aren't 
a major challenge to a Scorpion.

There doesn't seem to be a surplus of Health supplements on this floor, so reckless 
behavior is ill advised. Two life bubbles are stored in Secret locations. No Ammo 
was required.

Floor 4:

Neutralize the Guards behind the door on the left first. There's no cover to be had, 
so you'll need a firearm. I needed two slugs a piece from my Remington for the first 
two, but the next two can each be felled with a single shot each, if you aim for 
the heart. The last one can be had with the Knife. It sounds like a par seven to 
me. If you go through the right side door first, these same Guards will react to 
sound and attack from your rear flank.

Par Eight for Shoot the 2 SS. 

Shoot 5 Officers is a bit of a challenge. Four are behind hanging skeletons in opposite 
corners, and one roams the center area. I completed this assignment in the minimum 
six shots, but it's a par eight for most. The sequence of kills is most important 
here. Take one of the Officers directly opposite the door with two shots, then draw 
the fellow in the middle out to the doorway. A second Officer is hiding in a corner 
on the left hand side. He can be killed with the Knife, but don't do it, or the other 
two on the opposite side will take target practice on your back. You want the chap 
on the left to get a look at you before you go back to cover in the doorway. He'll 
do his little chicken dance, circling the cage, just like the first one did. He only 
seems to be dangerous after he's made his turn towards the back. Drop him just as 
he's about to turn and fire. Two shots more are needed to eliminate one of the two 
other Officers in the second enclosed area. The last one, hiding in the corner, didn't 
seem to realize that there was enough room for a blade to reach him between the corners 
of the cage and wall.

Shooting the four Officers guarding the Gold Key is quite a challenge. It can be, 
and was, done with 8 rounds, but ten sounds fair for par. Reduce your score by one 
stroke if you can do it without picking up any of the Ammo on the right hand side. 
I managed to leave two behind, but I picked up one because I needed that spot on 
the floor to silence my first target. I proceded near left, top right, then left, 
right again until all had toppled. Several shots were fired at me from the left while 
I was dispatching the first Officer on the right side, but I was unhit. I would advise 
against attempting to capture the key without first eliminating at least two of these 
foes. Note that there are four bodies, but only two are visible.

Floor 5:

If you haven't much Ammo at the start of this floor, your prospects of survival are 
slim. Right out of the elevator, you'll run into a squad of Guards, from each of 
the right and left sides, and there aren't any handy nooks from which one would have 
an apparent advantage. It's best to exit the elevator with the MP-60 ready. Hold 
your ground just outside the elevator, and you should be able to put them all down 
with about 50 rounds. The Knife will do for the remaining Guards, one at the end 
of each of the left and right corridors. If you are obliged to begin this floor with 
just the Knife, .45, and minimum compliment, I would suggest you go right first, 
then circle around to cover your rear flank before going right again, picking up 
Ammo with each kill. You should expect considerable loss of Health, should you be 
have to go this route. Guards usually aren't much of a challenge, but in open ground, 
in numbers, and arriving from two different directions, they can be quite a handful. 


Once you've cleared the corridor, You should go left, past the two Gold Key doors. 
You'll need to expend four or five rounds on the Mutant just behind the door at far 
left. Not far beyond that door is a room with hanging skeletons. Several Guards and 
a few Mutants will venture forth from the next room following. A small number can 
be lured out to the entrance to the hanging skeleton room. There is a small time 
gap between when they come out to look around, when they go back in, and when the 
next one comes out. It's just enough time for you to navigate the room, and set up 
shop to the left of the doorway. You can dispatch them all from that spot, provided 
that you are fast enough to get there in the first place.

You'll cross paths with additional dangerous Guards as you advance towards the Gold 
Key. They are in a grey maze-like room, with one door leading out. You'll also lock 
horns with a few Officers, a couple of dogs, and several batches of SS before you 
get the key, but you'll have good tactical spots nearby from which to make them dead.


If you want to go back to the room at far right, relative to the elevator, you can 
do this now, but clear only the main room at this time. All Officers in there can 
be drawn back to the entrance to the room at far left, past the Gold Key doors. Make 
sure you have completely cleared the Gold Key room to the left of the elevator before 
advancing into either of the two doors on the left in the room formerly occupied 
by living Officers. Two SS and at least one Officer will advance on your rear flank 
from the Gold Key room if they have not been put down first. 

There are five Officers behind the two doors on the left. Three of them can be drawn 
back to the Secret in the first Gold Key room, with two doors. The other two who 
remain can be taken forcefully in or around the room they're in. At the far end of 
the room, there is a second Gold Key door, where you'll encounter quite a few opponents 
before obtaining the Silver Key. They're all Officers or SS, though, so tried and 
true tactics will win out here. The three Officers in the washroom were evidently 
preoccupied with other matters when I slashed their throats. I had time for a quick 
shave before continuing my advance towards the Silver Key.

There is an odd stabbing angle to dispense with the Mutants waiting behind the Silver 
Key door. If no gap can be seen, you can be fired upon by either a Mutant being stabbed, 
or another in the room with magic curving bullets. If you expose a generous portion 
of the room, however, you can kill them all with the blade. I could see most, if 
not all, of the base of the lamp on the other side of the door when I had the correct 
angle.

The elevator itself is unguarded, but there are three Mutants waiting behind a Secret 
just to the right of the exit elevator. Although the Silver Key area is very small, 
it contains multiple Secrets, including a second Secret room past the one containing 
the three Mutants, and multiple pushwalls that move large blocks around, but fail 
to uncover any Treasure or munitions. Once I had dealt with the flood of Guards at 
the beginning, I was able to put my firearms away for the balance of the floor. It 
would have been most difficult, however, to defeat the initial assault without more 
firepower than can be relied upon from the Remington.

Floor 6:

Don't be too eager right at the beginning. Avoid the urge to shoot or stab the SS 
walking away from you. There are plenty more like him in proximity, dogs as well. 
Find your first Secret just to the right of the elevator, and move to the middle 
of the corridor, so He'll be sure to see you when he turns around at the far end. 
Move to your Secret, and wait for him to come to you. You'll want the sound of his 
agony to alert the others. Circle into your Secret, and begin stabbing, and don't 
stop until the rush has been quelled. Keep going for at least ten seconds after you 
catch a glimpse of the last one, just to be sure. If you haven't already picked up 
the HKMS-940, you'll have to do it here. It's waiting where you want to stand.

Beyond the sinks is a room with a very precise stabbing angle. It's the dogs you 
have to worry about. I think they go high. Don't even consider using the left side 
of the doorway. The second SS would take you out if you do that.

Just past Shoot the dog is an interesting challenge. There's a small room on the 
right, leading to another room from which Officers frequently come out to survey 
the environs. A couple can be lured back to the doorway opposite the dog, but the 
others aren't so curious. To down them silently one must time things precisely, starting 
from just inside the doorway, opposite the dog. If you start to move just as the 
doorway is opening, It will have closed by the time you reach the door to the room 
on the left. The nimble of foot will have time to move over to the left side of the 
door on the left, and take them as they exit.

The fellow guarding the Gold Key was reluctant to move from behind his table. I had 
to go out into the room to catch his attention when he was looking in my direction. 


Being able to block doors open, or to have them ajar behind you as you advance, will 
serve you in good stead here. One slug each for the mutts should be enough. 

No Mutants here, but an awful lot of SS. As long as you can get them to come to you 
one at a time in the dark blue hallway near the exit, you'll be fine, but watch out 
if they pair up. A Secret nearby would have made my job a lot easier, had I known 
about it at the time, but I managed to do without it.

When you reach the elevator room, take out the SS in the room opposite the entrance, 
then go back for the Guards in the room to the left of the entrance. Watch for some 
Secrets within Secret areas, and for some Secrets to be quite close to others.

Floor 7:

They must have saved the 4Fs for this floor. Other than the Mutants in the slimy 
maze, there's not much to test you here. Be sure to grab that first Secret off to 
the left of the elevator before you explore, though. You'll need it for the first 
few Officers. Elsewhere if you just get to the right spot by a corner or doorway, 
you can have them spill out en masse and literally beach themselves on your blade, 
like lemmings. No sport at all. 

Some of the Mutants in the slimy maze must have once been our boys, because they 
were the only ones with any sense. The maze gives you ample opportunities to display 
your prowess and test your bravery, as there are a number of spots where Mutants 
can be fought around corners, but in wide areas. Remember that the green oil drums 
hinder both yourself and the Mutants, so use them to funnel your foe towards you. 
You have to go and get them as you advance, but you don't have to draw them all the 
way back, like on some other floors. One for the Guard, three for the Mutie. Only 
the one Key here. Eight Awaits.

Floor 8:

Have your MP-60 locked and loaded as you leave the elevator. three Mutants are waiting 
for you in and around a central block. It's useless to tackle them with the Remington; 
there's just not enough time to fire left-right-left when using a pistol. Seven shots 
from the machine gun was enough to drop two of them, and Molly tasted the fetid flesh 
of the third.

Early on, after taking care of some Officers, you'll see a corridor with a number 
of SS eager for action. They can all be killed in the doorway, but one of them, possibly 
the fourth or fifth, has a nasty habit of being able to shoot while being puctured. 
I took care of this problem by stopping my knife thrusts after each kill was registered, 
and resuming only after I caught a glimpse of the next fellow's arm. Fortunately, 
these were SS, so although they're tough, they don't move fast enough to make this 
tactic particularly dangerous.

Not far from there is another of those Himmelfahrt blokes. He needs about 80 rounds 
of persuasion from the HKMS-940 to cough up the Gold Key.

The several SS waiting past the Gold Key door seem to be extraordinarily good shots. 
They can, and will, fire on you in the doorway, when only a portion of their leading 
arm is exposed. That's if you try to take them from right of the door. They aren't 
much bother from the left.

Just past the Gold Key door is a room with three doors on the right. You'll want 
to off the dogs in the first doorway, closest to the entrance. Beyond is an area 
that looks like a shooting gallery on either side. Though behind pillars, however, 
the SS on your right are not enclosed. Avoid the urge to attempt a firefight with 
them from this distance. You're better off flashing them a peek at your butt cheeks 
instead, to draw them back to the doorway you've blocked open. Once you have the 
majority of them, the last two can be picked off in a more leisurely manner, and 
in locations away from the doorway.

Watch for gaps between attacks from the Mutants in the room past where those SS were 
waiting. Beyond that is a room where there are two Silver Key doors on the left, 
and a room flanked by ornamental trees at the far end. So far I haven't found any 
Secrets that would be useful in a fight, and that room's quite wide open, so it's 
a sound plan to draw them back through two rooms, and dispense with them where those 
Mutants and dogs had just met their maker.

There's a wood paneled room to the right of Shoot the dog. It has a table in the 
middle, which tends to get in the way. There are five or six Officers in there, guarding 
a small amount of Treasure. It's hard to lure them out, and even more difficult to 
exit the room with them chasing you to your spot, four rooms straight back from the 
blocked open door. Be sure to leave the door ajar, if you plan to flash them and 
run.

The one dog on his own can give you fits. Let's call it two for him, one each for 
the others. Par six for the shooting gallery on this floor.

Floor 9:

Room 1: All of the Officers can be taken out from the corner of the central block 
at upper right. For Officers in room 4, use the door at upper right. Convince the 
first fellow to block it open for you. Quite a few of the Officers are reluctant 
to give up their cover behind the green oil drums, but if you dash across the door 
frame and back when they are fairly close, that's usually enough. When there's just 
the one remaining from this lot, draw his attention from the door at upper left, 
and let him come to you. There's one more waiting near upper center left. If you 
engage him, three SS may join the fray from the room on the left. One of these two 
SS can be silenced in the left side doorway where the last of the first group of 
Officers met the blade. The Other two SS can be lured back two rooms to a doorway. 
You don't want to fight them in and around the two open doorways.

In the Gold Key area, watch out for rogue Officers from the left side room to venture 
out while you are battling SS in rooms to the right. One room has a single SS, and 
its' doorway is a good place to drop several of those Officers. 

There's a room full of Mutants, just before you encounter Shabbs. A single one of 
them could be killed with the Knife, and I did the last of them that way, but the 
others will come in tandem, so it's best to lure them back through two doors to where 
you would have the clear advantage. They are not as intelligent as some of the Mutants 
encountered earlier, so I guess they weren't formerly any of our men.

Be sure to find all of your Secrets and Treasure before offing Shabbs. This includes 
the several Crowns in the room where you find him. 

I exhausted my full Ammo compliment and then some to take Shabbs out. I might have 
used less if I had fought him at closer quarters. He may decide to switch directions 
if you let him out of your sight, but he won't leave the room where the Mutants had 
been guarding him. If necessary, you can leave that room to acquire Ammo elsewhere 
before returning to finish him off. 

My radio's a shambles. One of Shabbs' needles hit it on a ricochet, and that toxic 
goop nearly melted it, so now I've no back armor. I should never have been so careless, 
with two strongholds still to go. I've had to go with Plan B to get this intel to 
you. I'll need to use other methods to provide future instructions. I hate to admit 
it, but they may have to send you in after me. Godspeed, lad.

HI











 






