Floor 1:

You'll need to conserve Ammo early on. You might as well wait until later to take 
out that first dog, unless you can drop him with one pistol shot. The Secret elevator 
to Floor 10 is just to the left of the regular elevator.

Floor 10: I used five rounds for each of the first and last Mutant. Every other opponent 
on this floor was killed with the Knife. There are a few places where you can be 
attacked from both the front and the rear, so be aware of the terrain behind you 
before exploring forward in the Key zones. Sometimes Officers and German Shepherds 
fart when stabbed to death.

Floor 2: It's very difficult to clear the first room beyond the elevator with just 
the Knife. The door on your left will probably be open when you exit the elevator. 
You'll want to run past the doorway, so the Guards will see you and shout an alarm. 
Position yourself at an angle, on the right side of the door, so that you can't see 
any part of the room itself, and only the tip of your Knife passes the edge of the 
doorway. Don't extend the body of the blade, or any part of your hand, into the doorway 
itself, or the dogs will bite you, (they can inflict Health damage, even if you can't 
see them). Just keep stabbing away at unseen targets, (four Guards, two German Shepherds, 
and one SS). If you try to kill them more face to face, you can probably succeed, 
but not without Health damage from the German Shepherds. Keep stabbing for about 
a minute, because it takes a while for all of them to impale themselves.

At the far left of that room, there is the first Secret. In between the two doors, 
there is a large Treaure room, with a little bit of Treasure, and two SS. The first 
SS will come out, but the second one has to see you. You can stab him to death by 
using the square block for cover.

In the room to the left of the Treasure room entrance, I think there are two Mutants 
and one Guard. Two Officers from the following room will join the fray after hearing 
shouts or gunfire. They can all be killed with the Knife, but the second Mutant has 
to see you before he can be lured out. In many cases, Mutants can only be killed 
with the Knife if you can see their forearm or less. If they come out any further, 
they can shoot, or can't be killed with the Knife. There are a couple of places on 
this floor, and many places on later floors, where Mutants can't be killed by stabbing 
their wrist, you must be able to see a significant part of their body. You still 
be able to take them out with the Knife if you start stabbing before they arrive. 


I can't recall a case where a human sprite could shoot while the Knife was in use, 
unless they were able to fire first, or you stop stabbing while they're still alive. 
This is usually, but not always, true of Mutants. 
 
Be sure to clear all of the Guards from the first red brick room directly across 
from the Treasure room, before going after the three SS and the German Shepherd in 
the room to the right of the Treasure room. The Guards will react to sounds from 
the SS/German Shepherd room, but the SS will not react to either shouts or gunfire 
from the Guards.

In one of the red brick rooms with a pot belly stove, where you have the option of 
going right towards a room with metal panels or left down a short corridor, clear 
the room on your left first, as the Guard and two of the SS will respond to sounds 
outside of the room they're in. You may otherwise be caught in a crossfire between 
those three, and Officers chasing you from the metal panel room. 

The three SS standing in front of sinks are deaf; they won't respond to either shouts 
or gunfire from you, or shouts from each other. I don't know if they respond to shots 
from each other, but there's really no reason why that should happen. If you can't 
kill a stationary target with his back to you, without having shots fired at you, 
you probably won't advance this far anyway.

About 95% of this floor is getting to the Gold Key. One Officer and a German Shepherd 
guard the Silver Key and there are two Officers, two Guards, two SS, (one inside 
the elevator), and a Doberman beyond the Silver Key door. I recommend that you look 
for Secrets before obtaining the Silver Key, or wait until the floor has been cleared 
before so doing. After picking up the Silver Key, you will hear doors opening and 
closing, and sometimes one of the Officers in the Silver Key area comes out on his 
own.

All opponents on this floor can be killed with the Knife, with the exception of the 
Guard behind a barrel, (see the Shooting Gallery folder. He's a par one with your 
pistol). Don't try to shoot over the barrel, use the gap between the barrel and the 
wall. The Mutant near the Gold Key, and another one in a guarded Treasure room, can't 
be killed with the Knife unless you lure them back a couple of rooms to a corner 
where you have a more strategic advantage. You might as well just expend a few rounds 
on them. There's plenty of extra Ammo on this floor.

I was only able to find 81% of the Secrets, but I had the All Kill and 100% Treasure, 
so it wasn't worth my while to see if the other 19% really are there in Death Incarnate 
mode.

Floor 3:

The first Guard in the elevator room can be killed with the Knife. A gun must be 
used for the Officer and SS waiting behind the first door, but careful use of the 
correct corners will allow you to kill all other opponents on this floor with the 
Knife, except for the Mutant and SS behind green barrels, (see the Shooting Gallery 
folder. We'll call this a par 8 with the machine gun). Whenever possible, kill German 
Shepherds in doorways, so the door stays open. 

There's a large red brick Secret room guarded by three Mutants. Adjoining sections 
of the wall will open this room, three in all. Open any of them, but not more than 
one, until you clear the floor. If you press multiple Secret panels, a stone blocks 
will move backwards, making the entrance to that room much too wide, and useless 
as a prime location for multiple Knife kills.

At one point, there are three doors leading to a room with a grid of square metal 
columns. A single door is directly opposite, across the room. Clear the main section 
of the room with metal columns before going to the room across the hall, or while 
you are battling foes through the single door, you will be attacked from the rear. 
You can bypass this section completely if you aren't concerned with bonus points.


There is a room not far from the Silver Key door where there are two SS officers, 
and the door opens and closes repeatedly. One of the SS will come out, look around, 
and go back in. If you are able to run past the door while it is closed, (so they 
don't see you going by), they will no longer come out. Kill the Guard around the 
corner from this room, and then go back for the SS.

I used this SS room to kill most of the opponents from the Silver Key area, by luring 
them back through multiple rooms. They usually come out alone, but sometimes two 
at a time. To do this, you have to keep letting them see you, then retreat to the 
previous room, and let them see you again. When they're close enough, duck into the 
SS room, and peak out around the corner of the doorway, enough that they see you 
and follow.

There are multiple situations on this floor where you can increase your odds of success 
with the Knife by starting the stabbing motion long before you can actually see any 
part of your opponent.

Many of the Mutants on this floor are very difficult to kill with the Knife, but 
it can be done. You may need to stab repeatedly, then move slightly over to stab 
more of the body. It takes close to a minute to finish some of them off. Be absolutely 
sure to continue the stabbing motion while you adjust your target, because if you 
stop clicking the mouse, even momentarily, they will fire at you. This floor also 
features the first Mutants who can fire at you in the middle of being stabbed! 

One of the main reasons why the Knife is my primary weapons is that, almost always, 
you cannot be fired upon by an opponent who is being stabbed. I think the one who 
could fire was in the red brick secret room. It has a BJ life bubble, and possibly 
a couple of jeweled cross Treasures. 

I needed to use about fifteen rounds of Ammo from the MP-60 to complete this floor, 
far above my norm.

Floor 4:

I was most of the way through this floor before I realized that I hadn't picked up 
any of the HKMS-940s scattered throughout the previous floors. If you look around 
on Floors 1,2, 3 and 10, you'll find a few.

The two Mutants who guard the Gold Key cannot be killed with the Knife, as far as 
I could tell. I also needed a firearm to kill the German Shepherd and the SS who 
are behind pillars, (see the Shooting Gallery folder). You should be able to take 
out the dog with one shot from your Remington .45. My personal best for offing the 
SS with a pistol was four shots, but one was fired after killing him, so we'll call 
this a pistol par five, with three being an eagle and four a birdie.

In one room close to the exit elevator, with a greyish white stone wall, a German 
Shepherd will follow you back to the doorway. Your opponents will follow through 
the doorway, but there seems to be a random element to the sequence in which they 
will do so. If the dogs come out early, they can all be killed with the Knife without 
loss of Health. If the dogs come out after a Mutant, they can all be killed with 
the Knife, but with some Health loss. The dogs can bite you, even if only a portion 
of the blade passes through the doorway, with no part of your hand exposed. I got 
through this part unscathed by quickly saving the game when the dogs came out early, 
and then beginning my Knife thrusts before the saved game was fully loaded.  

Stabbing angles on this floor are very important, particularly with Mutants. There 
are some cases where the Mutants can be killed with the Knife only if a significant 
part of their bodies can be seen. There are other cases where opponents, particularly 
Officers, can slip past your Knife between mouse clicks. 

There's a light blue area very close to the exit elevator. You can bypass this section 
completely if you aren't concerned about bonus points for 100% Kill and Treasure. 
There are, among others, multiple Mutants in this section, and they seem to be faster 
and smarter than many of the ones encountered previously. They won't follow you unless 
they get a good look at you first, and it seemed to me that one in particular wouldn't 
come out if I had already positioned myself at the correct stabbing angle. He's easy 
to kill with a big gun, but that's not as much fun as using the Knife. I would not 
recommend that anyone attempt to kill a Mutant with the Remington .45. THAT would 
be a big balls move.

Floor 5:

A gun is, of course, needed to kill the Mutant standing right outside the elevator. 
Start shooting early. Every other opponent on this floor can be killed with the Knife. 
One SS standing near a hanging corpse is really hard to get with the Knife, because 
he's reluctant to come out of his alcove. You have to go right against the far wall 
across from him and quickly retreat around the corner, then he'll follow. This scenario 
is also saved as "Shoot the SS 2" in the Shooting Gallery folder. 

There's one scenario where there are three doors to enter a room, and one room to 
the right, with obstacles around the door, and several Officers beyond. To get these 
guys with the Knife, you have to lure one out to the three doors. Go through the 
door at the far right, closest to the Officers room, and wait for him to come after 
you through the middle door. Killing him in the doorway will be beneficial, if you 
plan to lure the others out through one of three doors, and back to a strategic corner, 
(actually, a gap between a corridor and a separate section of the floor). Later on 
you'll find that there were more than just Officers in that room. 

They can usually be lured out one at a time, but sometimes a Mutant follows another 
opponent, or attacks as the first of two. Peaking around the corner will let you 
know how far away they are. Start stabbing before they arrive, and let them come 
into the Knife thrusts, instead of stabbing them directly. That worked for me at 
this point, anyway. There seemed to be a lot of Ammo scattered around. Be sure to 
have a full compliment when you go after the Gold Key, if you feel it necessary to 
use a gun.

There's one large Secret area guarded by one SS. He's been killed in the doorway, 
and there are two Chicken Dinners in the room. This Secret contains three BJ life 
bubbles.

Floor 6:

On this floor, opening certain Secrets sooner rather than later can be of tremendous 
benefit.

In the second room, where the first Secret is, a Guard will come out if he hears 
the Secret opening. Use the corner created by the opened Secret to take him out.


In a room with four suits of knight's armour, on the left is a room with five Officers, 
and there's an SS room on the right. Clear the Officers' first. 

There are three doors leading from the Officers' room. There is one Officer in each 
of the (bath)rooms to your right and left as you enter the door. A large number of 
opponents are behind the middle door, which is on the path to the Silver Key. You 
can lure them out to the entrance of the three door room, but keep in mind that several 
opponents may go into the bathroom on the right, and they will come out on their 
own to look around in the Officers' room. They need to get a good look at you to 
come all the way out, otherwise they will go back into the bathroom. 

Beyond the middle door is a corridor with four doors on each of the right and left 
sides. The third door on the right will lead you to the Silver Key. You will encounter 
multiple Mutants on the way, as well as some of each of your other opponents. Although 
only one Mutant corpse can be seen in the corridor entrance, there are at least five 
stacked up on the same spot. 

It is to your advantage to have the doors blocked open on the path to the Silver 
Key, so take advantage of opportunities to whack your foes in doorways. The dogs, 
in particular, are good choices for this. You might as well go all the way to the 
Silver Key before tackling the SS room.  If you try to clear the SS room first, Officers 
will respond to shouts and come out on their own behind you. Sometimes a German Shepherd 
comes with them. The SS seem to have poor hearing, and only follow if they see you.


It was difficult to lure out all five of the Officers. They didn't chase when I peeked 
across the doorway and retreated. I had to cross to the opposite site of the doorway 
to make the last three come out. 
Other opponents on the path to the Silver Key are not easily lured either, and they 
move faster than much of the opposition you'll have encountered to date, especially 
the among Mutants and Officers.

There's another room with multiple German Shepherds, a few Mutants, and probably 
at least one of each of the others. It's hard to tell, I only saw a few pixels while 
I stabbed them all in a doorway a little ways backward and around a corner from the 
room they're in. Those in that room follow quite easily. There is, however, a random 
element to the sequence in which your opponents leave the room. Watch for gaps between 
when you kill one opponent and when the next one arrives. There's a bit of distance 
from their room to your prime stabbing location, and they don't all travel at the 
same speed. Seeing you once is enough to make them follow. 

The SS room is on your path to the Silver Key door. The Gold Key, and the door it 
opens, are on the same path, and not far apart. When you are close to the Gold Key 
door, you will find a room with one door on the left, one on the right, and the Gold 
Key door at the far end. The room on the right will lead you to the Gold Key. A room 
adjoining the room on the left contains a Secret which provides a prime defensive 
position for cutting down most of the opponents that are waiting for you behind the 
Gold Key door. I think that only after you have acquired the Gold Key, do various 
opponents, mostly Mutants, venture out from the Gold Key area. They need to get a 
good look at you to be coaxed to follow into the room on the left. You'll have to 
expose quite a bit of yourself in the doorway for them to take notice, otherwise 
they'll return to the Gold Key area. Some luck is involved in killing all of them 
with the Knife, without loss of Health, because most of the time, some shots will 
be fired at you while you try to gain their attention.

Two SS will remain beyond the Gold Key door to guard the elevator to floor 7. When 
the Gold Key door stops opening and closing for more than twenty seconds or so, you'll 
know that all of the Mutants have come out.

I used six rounds with the Remington .45 to drop the two inaccessable Officers, (see 
Shoot the Officer 2 & 3 in the Shooting Gallery folder). I killed one of them with 
two pistol shots once, but not without inadvertently firing a third shot after he 
was already dead. Let's call them both par threes.

Floor 7:

Watch out for a lone Officer hiding at the back of a group of blue blocks, just before 
the Gold Key location. 

The Mutant in the exit elevator is very difficult to kill with the Knife, unless 
you have exactly the right angle. In one attempt, I stabbed him for over a minute, 
gradually moving closer while continuing to thrust, but it wasn't enough.

I was able to take out the two Mutants behind pillars with seven shots from the Remington 
.45, without getting hit. To do this, I had to save after each shot that seemed to 
hit one of them squarely. I would doubt that either could be killed with less than 
three bullets, so we'll call this a par eight for the pair. I didn't need Ammo anywhere 
else.

Floor 8:

Don't be too quick to save your games on this floor. There are a number of occaisions 
where a situation looks safe, but an opponent or two arrives faster than you might 
expect. I often had four saved games going at the same time, One saved at a known 
safe spot, one advanced a bit, one that appeared safe, and one for reconnaissance. 


It's very, very difficult to take out most of the Officers in the blue block area 
using only the Knife. It involves much luring from considerable distances at times, 
because there really only is one place where you can do it, and it doesn't afford 
much cover. None of the three secrets on the left side of the elevator are of strategic 
use, either. These Officers are faster, smarter, and better shots. They are quite 
accurate shooting at you between the bars of a hanging cage. They are reluctant to 
come back to near the elevator, so you must give them a good look at you more than 
once to make them follow. 

Be sure to let only one see you at a time, because sometimes two or even three come 
together. Then you'll need a gun, or a game saved at an earlier spot, if you hope 
to survive.The last two Officers, on your right as you approach the door, can be 
killed from behind by stabbing through the gap between the wall section and the hanging 
cage. 

There's a room with three doors at the far end, and a door on the right side. The 
door on the right is the 'Shoot the Guard 2' scenario in the Shooting Gallery 2 folder. 
You'll want to clear this room first, before going through the three doors, as the 
entrance to the 'Shoot the Guard 2' room is a prime killing spot for opponents you 
have lured from the three door room and beyond. I was able to take out both the Guard 
standing in the room, (Knife), and the Guard behind the pillars, (Remington .45), 
with a total of one shot, but we'll call this a par two. because using the Knife 
on the first fellow was perhaps overly brave. You'll have to practice on jus the 
one behind the pillar, though, because I killed the first Guard before saving the 
scenario for the Shooting Gallery. My bad.

Watch out for Mutants lying in wait at certain locations in this area. If you move 
slowly, you will be able to catch a quick glimpse without them being able to see 
you. One is between the second and third blocks to the left of the last door of the 
three on the left, another is just inside the door of the adjoining room on the left. 


In the room on the left, there is a corridor with three rooms on either side. The 
first two door on either side as you enter are separate entrances to the same rooms. 
The last door on either side is self contained. Opponents on either side will react 
to shouts or gunfire in this area, so it's to your advantage to lure as many as possible 
away and back to the 'Shoot the Guard 2' room, unless you feel it necessary to use 
some Ammo. If you attempt a firefight in that area, though, expect some of your blood 
to spill, because you may have to simulaneously battle opponents coming out of four 
doors at the same time. 

In the room with blue walls just before where you'll find the Gold Key, there are 
two adjoining pushwalls to the large Secret area, which contains a BJ life bubble 
and a couple of chicken dinners. there are also multiple pushwall sections among 
the red brick maze in the middle of this room, but they don't reveal any hidden items.


The Gold Key door is back near the beginning, through the door with Verboten signs 
on either side, (the Silver Key door is in the 'Shoot the Guard 2' room). 

Once you have the Gold Key, you won't have to face a lot of opponents between yourself 
and the elevator. In some tight corners by doorways, you may have to expose a considerable 
gap between the left and right door edges when using the Knife. Fortunately, only 
the occaisonal Officer or Mutant will attempt such a sharp angle shot. It's more 
likely that an SS will do this.

You'll find an Officer and a Mutant waiting for you in the elevator to the final 
floor. You'll have to cross the plane of the elevator door entrance to get the Mutant's 
attention, but the Officer is waiting for you when you open the door.

There are at least four BJ life bubbles in the hidden areas.

Floor 9:

I think two shots with the Remington .45 should be enough to drop the Officer behind 
the hanging cage. He sees you better if you peek around the corner than he does if 
you are directly in front of him, (see Shoot the Officer 4 in the Shooting Gallery 
2 folder). Both of you can shoot through the cage with some degree of accuracy. 


Some of the blocks in the center of a room are Secret pushwalls, but they only serve 
to rearrange the room, (no Treasure, weapons, or other munitions are revealed). 


This is the most important piece of advice in this Episode: Do not push these Secrets!!! 
One block, when pushed, will obstruct the door from which you entered the room, and 
you will not be able to return to the Silver Key door. Your mission will end, in 
failure, even if you kill the Boss, to get the Gold Key, and use that to obtain the 
Silver Key. 

Throughout this episode, whenever there are two or more Secrets very close to each 
other, there is no immediate advantage to pushing all of them at the same point, 
but doing so often jeopardizes completion of your mission. This is the only point, 
however, where found Secrets can end your game in defeat. There's no problem with 
testing the perimeter in this room, just leave the blocks in the middle alone! Fortunately 
for me, I was able to resume my game as at Shoot the Officer 4. Others may not be 
so lucky. 

The Boss is in a room where you'll find an HKMS-940 outside the door. You won't see 
it on the 'end 9' saved game, because I ran over it while avoiding the pursuing Boss. 
He's behind, and hidden by,a large square in the center of the room. Several Guards 
are in the room itself, and at least three will remain in the Ammo and Health store 
room on the left. If you attempt to battle the Boss in his lair, he will be assisted 
by those Guards, who respond to noise from the room. The opponents in the room on 
the right will not. One of the Guards will accompany the Boss if he follows you out 
of his room. 

I don't conserve Ammo when fighting a Boss. I found that the best approach was to 
draw him back through multiple rooms, taking advantage of opportunities to take both 
long and short range shots at him from the cover provided by doorways as I retreated. 
I benefited greatly from having killed multiple opponents in the same doorways through 
which I was now retreating, because I could replenish most of my spent Ammo just 
by going through the door, without having to alter my course or do any searching.


The Boss was weakened by volume shots, and finished off at close range near the entrance 
to the room with the dangerous push panels. The Guard who followed him was later 
killed with the Knife, as were the other opponents on this floor, except the inaccessible 
ones saved in the Shooting Gallery folders. 

It took five shots with the pistol to drop the SS guarding the Silver Key. It seems 
that he can take more damage if he is sideways, looking left in his enclosure, rather 
than facing you head on.

Two episodes down, four to go.