Floor 1:

Opening Secrets as you go will give you a major tactical advantage on this floor, 
particularly in the first few rooms. Watch out for gaps between waves of opponents. 
If you're using a firearm, you may expend much Ammo firing at air. 

There were a few places where I had to do my stabbing from the left side of a corner 
or door, rather than the right side. Near the Gold Key location, I had to go to the 
small alcove opposite the door, to battle foes in the room now on my right, but to 
the left of the door.

There are multiple occaisions where opponents will come out of doors on their own, 
beginning with the Mutant to your left if you are shooting at the German Shepherd 
in the first room. It's best to open the Secret opposite the door where the Mutant 
is, before it comes out, (you'll probably have to kill a few opponents from the second 
room, before the Mutant becomes interested in you).

There are two doors that can be opened with the Gold Key. One leads to the Silver 
Key, and the other leads to considerable Treasure and a large body count. 

Many opponents will venture out from behind a door, very close to the starting point, 
I think in the third room. They need to get a good look at you to be lured away. 
Often more than one opponent will follow, as well as stray dogs, from time to time. 
Once opponents cease to come out of that room, you can enter the main room. 

The door to the Gold Key area containing Treasure and lots of opponents is blocked 
open by a stack of dead Nazis, but you'll recognize the location by the three chandeliers 
on the ceiling. In this room, there are three doors on each of the right and left 
sides as you enter, and a Secret at the far end, opposite the entrance door. There 
are multiple Mutants, among other opponents, behind each of the first door on the 
left, and the second door on the right. Some of these Mutants will venture out into 
the room on their own. 

I took out the SS behind the first door on the right, and used that room to kill 
most, if not all, of the opponents from the other two rooms mentioned. Normally, 
it would be a poor strategy to place onesself in a room with only one entrance/exit, 
to fight opponents who must be killed before very much of their body is exposed, 
but this time, it was successful. I don't think there would be time to find the Secret 
at the back of the room before those Mutants were dispatched. I might have been able 
to lure them out to the Gold Key doorway, but the first room on the right was as 
good of a choice.

You should be able to take out the German Shepherd at the beginning with one shot 
from the Remington .45. 

Shoot the Officer 1 is a par three, because there is a Guard in the room with him. 
It takes at least two direct hits to drop the Officer, and I bagged the Guard with 
my Knife, so I'll give myself a birdie on this one. 

You'll probably need at least five shots to kill the SS, guarding some Treasure further 
along in the Gold Key area described above. He seems to be wearing some sort of armour 
on the sides of his midsection, so he can take a lot of hits if he's facing sideways. 
You have to get him to face you for your shots to be efficient, but then he'll be 
dangerous to you. He won't fire at you if he's facing sideways, so he can be killed 
fairly easy, if you want to use a big weapon, or a lot of Ammo.

There's an HKMS-940 in the first Secret, and I think there was another one somewhere 
else. I left this weapon behind, because it is somewhat heavy, and I have no plans 
to use it anytime soon.

Floor 2:

Opening Secrets as you go is a sound strategy here, especially in the first few rooms. 
Prime stabbing locations are just waiting to be found. There are a few doorways where 
there's a good section of daylight between the door frames when you have the proper 
blade angle. In other cases, shots from the room behind can hit you through an unseen 
gap. It seems to be to my advantage when there is some sort of obstacle, (suit of 
armour, lamp, cauldron of blood, etc.), on the opposite side of the door and door 
frame, so if I am stabbing from the right side of the door, said obstacles to my 
left, inside the room, prevent opponents inside the room from shooting at me through 
the gap through the door frame edges, and I benefit from a wider stabbing angle.


There's a Guard standing behind a hanging corpse who's very difficult to get with 
the Knife. I had to run at him from a distance, and drop him before he could fire 
an accurate shot. Much later, after I had found the elevator, there was one rogue 
Officer waiting in the same place. I don't know where he came from, and I don't think 
I could have missed him the first time around, so he may circulate on his own, or 
he may leave a locked area independently. He was also a tough one.

I couldn't get 'Shoot the SS 2' in less than five pistol shots, so we'll call him 
a par five. I did much better in Shoot the Mutant/dogs, downing all three in only 
five shots. That's really hard to do, though. I had to resave after every successful 
shot. One each for the dogs, three for the Mutie. Note that I bagged all three on 
or about the same spot, but I did get one of my hits on the Mutant somewhere else. 
Par seven for the lot sounds fair. 

There's a big gun down the hall from the entry elevator, if you need it.

Floor 3:

Precise stabbing angles are critical on this floor, if you want to tackle it with 
the Knife. You will also find that the optimum Knife angle may have to change in 
the midst of a wave of opponents, if you hope to succeed. Most of the early Secrets 
have no strategic use.

In the doorway to the room directly across from the elevator, shots can hit you even 
if you can't see any gap between the door frames. If you use the same doorway, (but 
from the opposite side), to battle foes from the room to the left of the elevator, 
however, the correct angle exposes a significant portion of the room behind. 

There are a number of places where opponents will venture out on their own, either 
through curiosity, or because you have opened a different door or Secret nearby. 
When I opened one of the early Secrets, guarded by a German Shepherd, (not far past 
the room directly opposite the elevator), a lone Guard ventured out from the room 
to the left of the elevator, some distance away. 

Opponents will often need to get multiple good looks at you before they can be lured 
to the location where you would like to face them. This means you will require some 
degree of luck to avoid being hit when your presence is noticed. 

In the early room where there are a lot of square silver blocks, one of the Officers 
was able to shoot at me while I was stabbing a wave of opponents. There was no pause 
in my thrusts, and no apparent gap from which to shoot from the room. That hasn't 
happened before. Some of the silver blocks are Secret push panels, but they only 
rearrange the room, and have no impact on optimum killing spots.

The red brick area is very difficult to clear with the Knife. You must be able to 
battle each Officer in solo combat. If two or more arrive simultaneously, you must 
use a gun, or you will die. Later on, I had to kill a Mutant where the corridor is 
quite wide in this area.

To advance beyond the red brick section, you must begin by luring out the first four 
or so opponents waiting behind the room on the left. These include the Mutant mentioned 
above. If you attach either doorway directly, multiple opponents will emerge from 
the door to the rooms not yet secured. After whacking the four from the room on the 
left, you can advance to the room at the far end, without fear of being followed 
from your rear flank.

There is a hallway beyond the room on the left of the red brick area, with two doors 
on each side. There is only one room on each side of the hallway, but each has two 
separate entrances and exits. The first door to the room on the left will open if 
you walk past it. There are two Officers inside. One will come out through the first 
door, and the other through the second, to approach you from behind. There is time 
to stab the first, and rotate around to fight the second one before he arrives, but 
there isn't much margin for error. A Secret in the first room on the right is a good 
place to drop two Officers in the room at the far end of the hallway, directly opposite 
the entrance from the red brick room. 

Very close to the Gold Key, there is a large Secret room, the opening to which is 
an exellent place to make a stand, from inside.  Beware of the second adjacent push 
wall! If you already have the Gold Key, it's OK, but if you push beside the opening 
to the Secret room, on the left side of the exit from the room, a block will slide 
over, and obscure the room with the Gold Key.  You'll never be able to leave the 
floor, alive or dead. If you push the same panel from the outside, it moves harmlessly 
into the room, making the entrance wider. One push good, two push, very bad mojo.


This floor gives you multiple opportunities to test your bravery. I completed this 
floor without firing a shot, but I was fired upon many times. The placement of the 
bodies on the completed floor will make it apparent that many opponents can be caught 
off guard, and killed in hand-to-hand combat far from any cover. 

Floor 4:

The Secret directly opposite the elevator is a very useful defensive position against 
the first wave of opponents, from the right or left doors. 

The right side leads to a lot of enemies and quite a bit of Treasure, most of it 
hidden. Enemies will come out from each side, on their own, if you cross the plane 
of the med kit in the middle. You want the first batch to come out on their own, 
because that leaves fewer stragglers in the rooms on each side. 

There's a very generous stabbing angle at the doorway to the second room. You can 
see as much as the full leg of the suit of armour on the left side. You can also 
have no gap between the door frames. Most angles in between would probably work as 
well. If you're too parallel to the door, however, the Mutant will get you. If a 
dog comes out with the first wave, he will probably take about 5% Health away from 
you, but sometimes he stays behind until later. In the two-doored room on the left, 
If you moon them and run across the hall to the opposite side, (you have, of course, 
ensured that that doorway was previously blocked open by a Guard's body), The Guard 
from the room on the left will come at you from the first door, and the SS will come 
in through the far door, bottom right side. You have time to drop the Guard, and 
spin around to take the SS, coming up behind you. He doesn't try any long range shots. 
Somewhat later, you may encounter a rogue SS in this area. Where he comes from is 
anyone's guess, but mine is from behind a locked door, probably the Silver Key door.


Once you have the Gold Key, up to five opponents from behind the Silver Key door 
may come out on their own, if you are exploring the perimeter around the bottom left 
corner, relative to the Silver Key door. The opposite side of the doorway, directly 
across from the Silver Key door, is a good place to make a Knife stand.

In the room with the large cinderblock maze, the two German Shepherds will work together, 
and with a Mutant, to try to trap you to their left, your right, of the doorway. 
Usually one dog attacks from the front, and another circles around behind you. The 
Mutant usually follows one dog or the other. If you can bag the two dogs before the 
Mutant can see you, try to draw him towards the back of the room, between the first 
and second columns of blocks on the right hand side, relative to the entrace to the 
room it's in.

None of the blocks in the middle of rooms are push panels, but one Secret has three 
consecutive pushwalls. The last two just move blocks into the middle of the attached 
room.

In the Shoot the Mutant 1 scenario, you can see him from the doorway, behind a flag 
pole at the far end of the room. He can inflict minimal damage from that range, especially 
if you don't move, or if you move towards the left side of the doorway entrance. 
His aim increases significantly if you are close to the two tables. Opponents in 
the room to the left are waiting to come out, if you advance very far into this room, 
and there are other opponents in a side area on the far right, fairly close to the 
Mutant behind the flag pole. The door to this room is not a good strategic location 
for hand-to-hand combat. I found the best strategy to be following the right side 
wall to the Secret room, and using the opposite side of its' entrance to take out 
all opponents from the room on the left, almost directly across. It was difficult 
to avoid sharp angle, but close distance, shots from the Mutant, while I drew the 
Officer and SS, (two, I think), from the right side area, near the Mutant behind 
the flag. You don't have to clear the room on the left before going after the Mutant 
behind the flag, only the four or five opponents who will come out on their own. 
This might have been when I bagged a Mutie from the doorway of the first room on 
the right, stabbing right as he tried to hug the wall and get me, it coming from 
my right towards my left. 

I used three shots in completing this floor, all on the Mutant behind the flag, (he 
can't be taken in two). I won't assign a par value to this scenario, but compare 
the amount of ammo you use to the minumum amount needed, and you'll have a good gauge 
of your efficiency.

On this floor in particular, but at other times throughout the episode, If you have 
not been successful at blocking a door open, you may find it beneficial to leave 
the door behind you ajar as you advance. This applies most when doing a right angle 
turn from a main room through a small room which has doors on the left, right, or 
both.

Floor 5:

It's impossible to take the first two Guards with the Knife, unless you don't care 
about Health. They can be had with one slug a piece, but let's make them a par three. 


In the scenario 'Shoot the SS & Officer', you will need to shoot the SS, but the 
Officer, and several more like him, can be lured around from the opposite site, but 
it means a lot of running. It's always to your advantage to attract the attention 
of only one of them at a time. Par four for the SS.

Not far from the exit elevator, there's a room with a cinderblock maze. Some of the 
long wood blocks nearby make the Secret opening sound, but don't actually move, but 
they probably count for Secrets bonus. Several of the cinderblock pieces move, revealing 
nothing, but altering the floorplan in a way that would have been advantageous, had 
I known of it at the time. 

You'll have plenty of opportunites on this floor to test your bravery. Be ready to 
stab from either side of a door frame. 

Some of the Mutants don't make a sound when they die. I recognized one as having 
once been George Herman. I swear I saw a smile on his death mask. Now he is free. 
It was probably the last Mutant in the room with a wood block maze that got him, 
the one that sneaks up from behind. I battled it for over a minute before the bugger 
gave up the ghost.

Floor 6:

The opening elevator provides an excellent spot for killing multiple opponents from 
a number of nearby rooms. 

A minimum of eight shots is needed to complete this floor with 100% Kill bonus. Each 
of the two dogs, (one in the Shooting Gallery folder, the other in Shooting Gallery 
2), require use of a firearm. More than one shot for each means you should be working 
on your aim. This floor's episode of Shoot the Officer, (SAVEGAM9.WL6 in the Shooting 
Gallery folder), is a par 2.

I neglected to save one scenario for the Shooting Gallery folder. It was originally 
to be called 'Shoot SS & Officer 2', but the correct name should have been just 'Shoot 
the SS 2'. The situation is an SS behind some barrels. He can be dropped with a minimum 
of four shots from the Remington .45, but only if you can shoot him while he is facing 
you, and thus, able to shoot back. When he's dead, an Officer will arrive to take 
his place. I don't think it's possible to complete this area unscathed if the SS 
is not first liquidated. The Officer, however, and several more like him, can be 
had with the blade. Come to think of it, I can't be sure if this was on floor 5 or 
six. They seem to blend into one after a while. When you get there, you'll know.


The barrels area is not enclosed; you can get there by working your way around the 
wall opposite the entrance door to this area. You'll need to make the Officers follow 
you back to the entrance if you want to kill them silently. This requires that you 
retreat only far enough at a time to make them curious, and able to see you. Draw 
them further back in installments.

There's another area where a number of Officers are standing in a room behind hanging 
skeletons. This was not saved for the Shooting Gallery, because they are not enclosed. 
The door to the right of the entrance leads to them. If you want to stab opponents 
in that doorway, you must do so from the left side, otherwise Officers from behind 
the skeletons can and will hit you more than once.

The Mutant in the exit elevator is very difficult to kill with the Knife in the doorway, 
beside 'Shoot the dog 2' in the Shooting Gallery 2 folder. It's difficult to draw 
out of the room, and it moves quickly. I had to adjust my stabbing angle three or 
four times, allowing more of its' body to be exposed each time, before it drew its' 
last breath. In hindsight, the Secret room very close to the exit elevator would 
have been a much more convenient place to perform this task. The two Guards waiting 
inside that Secret area didn't put up much of a fight, and you don't have to confront 
that Mutant until you open the exit elevator door.

Floor 7:

You will need a firearm for the two Officers behind the door to the right of the 
elevator. The Guards and German Shepherds can be had with the Knife. Clear that room 
first before going to the room opposite the elevator. The second Mutant in the room 
across from the elevator is very tough. I think I had to use four or five stabbing 
angles to get him, starting with the hand, and progressing to the torso. As I saw 
more of him, he saw more of me, but he wasn't able to fire between thrusts. I think 
I'll pick up the next available HKMS-940, for I may need it soon. The one hidden 
in the Guards' bathroom will do just fine.

There's one Secret, with a little bit of Treasure, on the path of rooms leading from 
the room opposite the elevator.

There's a false Secret elevator in one large Secret area, but the real mccoy is just 
off to the left side of the regular exit elevator.

If you can get through the first wave of opponents on this floor, it's fairly smooth 
sailing after that, if you follow the tips learned on previous floors. None of the 
early Secrets provide adequate cover, but most of the later ones do. Most of this 
floor is devoted to finding the Gold Key. The Silver Key is not far away, and is 
unguarded. Only one room with a single wave of opponents stands between the Silver 
Key door and the exit elevators.

Floor 10:

Open your first Secret before you enter the room beyond the elevator area. There 
are three German Shepherds and several Officers in that first room. You'll want to 
draw the dogs out of the room, but not kill them until after the door has closed 
behind them. Otherwise, you'll alert the Officers prematurely. Watch out for two 
Officers hanging back in the room. 

In the shiny red room, some hanging skeletons can be used to your advantage, and 
others to your detriment, if you are trying to lure an Officer back to an advantageous 
spot. They need more than just a good look to come all the way back to you; they 
need enough time to stop and aim, so you'd better be able to grab some cover fast, 
and wait for them to arrive. Fortunately, they chose to fight you one at a time, 
unless you are careless when attracting their attention. 

Following through the rooms after the shiny red room, you will find a room with three 
doors opposite the entrance. In most missions, the rule of thumb seems to be: when 
in doubt, go right, but this won't work here. Start with the door to the upper left 
as you enter the room. There were a few dead Guards on the floor when I arrived, 
so I guess old Herman or one of the snipers got at least this far. Following through 
adjoining rooms will lead you to the Gold Key.

Behind the middle door are some SS, but they're generally a stupid lot, and these 
were no exception. One of the Officers behind door number three was briefly curious. 
The Officers standing in front of sinks are unconcerned with events happening around 
them.

There's a large, long room containing green oil drums that you must negotiate to 
find the Silver Key. The entrance is from a room with four locked Silver Key doors. 
The oil drum area is crawling with Mutants. It's very, very difficult to lure them 
back to the doorway two rooms previous, if you want them to taste cold steel.
You'll have to be prepared to get close to them, and withdraw in installments. Be 
prepared to have multiple shots fired at you, and hope that they miss. If you flash 
them, and withdraw to safety, they will lose interest, and stay where they are. If 
you stay close enough that they think they have a good shot at you, they will come 
after you, and they will take good shots at you. There are a few safe areas, (safe 
for the Mutants, that is), on the right side of the room, relative to the entrance. 
It may be necessary to advance as far as the end of the group of med kits to make 
them advance from one Mutant safe zone to the next. That also means exposing your 
back, while you run back to the limited safety of the doorway.

If you can succeed in bringing them out to the room with the four Silver Key doors, 
they will follow to the doorway directly opposite the entrance to the oil drum room. 
You'll know that they are following because you will hear the door to the oil drum 
room open and close after it has done so for you. Then you have to do the same thing, 
again, and again, and again, and again, until you've bagged them all.

This floor features some unusual stabbing angles in doorways. Often a significant 
gap must be seen through the sides of the door frame. Sometimes a very small or non 
existent gap is enough for shots to be fired at you. There are very few places where 
you can allow an opponent to fully enter a room, to fight face to face. This can 
be done with Officers and SS, but there are usually Mutants or German Shepherds following, 
and you won't have time to adjust position before they arrive.

This floor has a lot of aggravation for a little bit of Treasure. You may find yourself 
burning more Ammo than can be replaced, if you go the big gun route.

This floor can be cleared without firing a shot, but only by a seasoned professional. 
For you kids out there, who might be reading this, don't go home and try this yourself, 
or you might get hurt.

Floor 8:

Don't engage the first Mutant immediately. Let it keep walking to the far end of 
the second room, then advance half way to the small alcove on the right, and wait 
for it to come back to you. There's an HKMS-940 hidden at the far end of the second 
room. You can use the cover provided by the Secret entrance to dispose of the second 
Mutant. 

You'll have a steady diet of Mutants most of the way to the Silver Key. They'll often 
need a good look at you before moving to a location where you have the advantage. 
be prepared to stab from the left, from the right, and even backhand. Remember to 
leave doors behind you ajar, for speady retreats. Unfortunately, there aren't a lot 
of doors, and there aren't many Secrets either. 

If you're successful at navigating through the first series of connected rooms, you'll 
find a door with cauldrons of blood on either side. The room beyond has several wooden 
barrels across from the entrance, and a door on the left hand side of the room leads 
to a red brick maze room. Various parts of the red brick maze are pushwalls, and 
how and where they move will determine changes to the layout of the room. I've drawn 
a quick map on the wall outside the entrance elevator to show you how to reconfigure 
this room correctly. If you push the walls in the wrong sequence, or if you push 
the wrong panels, a block will move across to bar the rooms behind you. This will 
not create a problem unless you have left behind Treasure or munitions in the previous 
areas, (this may include one BJ life bubble, among other things). If you don't push 
any of the panels, at one point you will be battling a Mutant, while two more circle 
around you from behind. Pushing the correct panel closes the space behind you, and 
provides a handy alcove from which to slay all three Mutants. 

It is to your advantage to have first dispatched the dogs from the room beyond the 
red brick maze. Allowing them to come out of the room, but waiting until the door 
closes before killing them, will be to your benefit. It's never good to be fighting 
Mutants and German Shepherds simultaneously in a position where you can be attacked 
from multiple flanks. 

The human opponents you'll encounter later on your quest for keys will seem much 
less of a challenge, by comparison to what you've gone through on this floor to date. 


There are plenty more Mutants to face between the Gold Key door and the exit elevator. 
The strategies that have worked for you to this point should work again. Watch out 
for the SS waiting for you in the exit elevator. He's mean, but he's slow to react, 
and now he's wearing an additional shade of red.

I went back to the red brick room to push some walls, and maybe find all of the Secrets. 
The room moved to a different configuration from before, without having the doorway 
blocked. It's possible that there are more pushwalls if you press them in a different 
sequence, but it wasn't worth the time to test that theory. Only the one push panel 
matters when you're facing enemies there.

I fired no shots on this floor, but plenty were fired at me, and at close range. 
The key is to make those shots have a low percentage of success. 

Floor 9:

If you apply what you've learned so far, you shouldn't have any difficulty getting 
to the first Boss. Several secrets found as you go will provide valuable cover.

When I reached the armoured Hitler clone, it soon became apparent that the quarters 
were too close to battle him face to face when he shed his shields. I got his attention 
with a quick burst, then fled backward through multiple rooms, looking for places 
where I would have a 45 degree shot at him, with cover to my left easily available. 
We were part way through the long sweeping room filled with wooden barrels when it 
became deathly silent. I knew he was free, and waiting nearby. He would not advance, 
so I had to. I noticed he had shielded himself behind a small alcove on the right, 
around one of the corners I'd used to shoot at him previously, I believe. I suppose 
his cowardly nature took over, once his exoskeleton was demolished. Still, he's very 
mobile, and he can take a lot of abuse, but he's slow to react in close quarters. 
I stayed just around the corner from him, ducked out to shoot four rounds at a time, 
and returned to my secured position. I must have repeated this thirty times or more. 
You don't expect to connect with every bullet when you use that technique, so I think 
I did a little better than two in four. I don't believe that he fired a shot in my 
direction, with or without the robot suit. I don't worry about conserving Ammo against 
a Boss. If Molly's done her job to that point, I don't have to look far to top up 
my Ammo.

The second Boss appeared to be another of those Himmelfahrt chaps, this time painted 
yellow. And yellow he was. The old circle the square technique put him down without 
much fuss. That's from week one of boot camp. The situation here has been rectified. 
I'm halfway to the final fight.
