SAVE THE UNIVERSE PART ONE: LAIR OF THE GANALECH

The Goop alien race has been planning something. Something sinister. Something genuinely 
evil. They plan to blow up the
universe. What else is new.

Note: In case you aren't really that smart at chemistry, alkali is the opposite of 
acid on the pH scale. Both burn through
stuff but alkali is better at burning through flesh.

PRODUCTION NOTES
I admit it. I'm a lazy animator and graphics artist (except when it comes to drawing, 
but when I scanned pictures I drew into
the game to replace emeny animations the game crashed whenever one was visable). 
Heres a little tip I use. The animation
sprites (2 dimensional objects) for a typical guard consists of 8 directions, 1 frame 
for each direction is of him is
standing and about four or five of each direction in running frames, as well as dying, 
died and shooting. That is a lot of
frames and takes a long time, even for my artwork, which barely rivals that seen 
in South Park. So I make frames for two
directions (facing front and back) and about two frames for each direction of running 
and standing.

I cut out and end of game boss (The Ganalech). I made a set of animations for the 
Ganalech boss but the game crashed whenever
I opened the door in front of the boss. I put in a large firefight to the exit instead.


ENEMIES

Green Goop Alien: Blasts out alkali of pH 13 from his hands. Faster than the grey 
goop alien but his alkali attack has a
weaker pH and therefore is weaker.

Grey Goop Alien: Rather than blast out a wad of alkali like the Green Goop Alien, 
this one sprays it out like a shower.
It's alkali spray has a pH of 14 and contains little rocks that punch through armor 
and let alkali seep inside (this is
painful and damaging).

Tobor Maintainence Bot: Tobor Bots (Tobor is Robot backwards) repair stuff and build 
things. Has a very weak attack.

WEAPONS

Knife: Made out of an alloy of titanium and high-carbon steel it is strong against 
solid enemies. Gloop aliens aren't solid
enemies. Their bodies are made of shaking Jelly so it takes several stabs to rip 
up a gloop alien. When they are unalert
Gloop aliens don't shake as much so their brains can easily be stabbed, as opposed 
to ripping the alien up.

Pulse Rifle: An energy rifle with low rate of fire but excellent damage and accuracy. 
Good for putting down Gloop aliens.

Ray Gun: You see them in cartoons and "aliens attack the earth movies" from the 1950s. 
They are the ever popular ray gun.
It has a high rate of fire and moderate damage, excellent for mowing down waves of 
Green Gloop Aliens.

Twin Mini Ray Guns: I've seen too many John Woo movies and played a little too much 
Max Payne. The mini ray gun is basically
the standard ray gun pistol scaled down for concealment and mowing down people in 
nightclubs like the Terminator did  in
the first Terminator movie. One is armed in each fist. The Mini Ray gun fires at 
a higher rate of fire than it's big brother
but is weaker.

OBJECTS

AA Batteries: Easier to use than those big thumbly Cell packs from Doom and Quake 
2, these are the standard portable power
source in the world (the very spaceship you are walking on utilises 100 of these 
for power). Each battery is equivilent to
8 cells from the computer game Quake 2.

Warhammer 20 War Orcs Pack: A standard pack of 20 high quality unpainted orcs.

Warhammer 20 Orcs and Mordian Marines pack: 40 high quality figurines.

Commander Keen 6: Aliens Ate My Babysitter: The best adventure from the Commander 
Keen series (available from id software).

20 Bucks: A crispy green note with the value of 20 US Dollars.

Canned Peaches: I like canned peaches. They restore some health.

Boxed Sirloin Steaks: 4 sirloin steaks, marinated and perfect for grilling. Restores 
a lot of health.

HEALTH
I replaced the "bleeding face" from Wolfenstein 3d with an approximate health bar. 
It is green and shrinks as your health
lowers. When you pick up the mini ray guns the bar turns white and has "yay" written 
on it and then goes back to measuring
health. When you are dead the bar turns red. In case you haven't played Wolfenstein 
3d or any games using it's engine health
ranges from 0-100 (100=Completely Healthy 0=Dead). Health can be replenished by picking 
up peaches or sirloin steaks.

SECRETS
Secrets are discovered by pushing pushable wall panels. These secret panels can be 
identified by the fact there are none
others like it in the level, or you see a strange wall panel on it's own. Get right 
up to one and press spacebar. You want
an example of a secret? On the first level, open the door into the large room with 
2 aliens. There are 4 mini rooms to the
sides. Open the second door to the right and push the wall panel. May that be a reward 
for you, one of few people who
actually reads txt files such as these.

SPOILERS
Want to know where the secrets are kept? Want to avoid a trap? Scroll down.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Level 1
Go through the door into the room with 2 green aliens. There are 4 doors. Go to the 
2nd door on the right and push the wall
panel to reveal some treasure, ammo, food and a ray gun.

Level 2
No secrets or traps

Level 3
Exit the elevator, take the goodies, go into the next room and take the door on the 
right. Move through this room (it should
have 3 guards) to the next room with 2 guards and a door on the left and right. Take 
the left door and go straight through
the door ahead of you. You will be in a large hallway full of aliens. Turn left around 
the corner and go to the end with 3
wall panels. Push the odd one out (the middle panel) and take the twin mini ray guns 
and treasure.

Level 4
Keep going through the only doors (this is a very linear level) until you reach a 
room with 2 wall panels on each side. Push
the odd panel (first on the right) to take the treasure.

Level 5
No secrets or traps

Level 6
The room with the golden key is a trap on hard levels. If you are playing on the 
second hardest level or above there are 2
grey guards ready to ambush you on both sides of the door. The noise will alert the 
guards in the 4 miniture rooms to the
sides and if you go straight for the key by the time you pick it up the aliens will 
storm out of the doors and flank you. If
you are playing on easy levels there will be no guards to ambush you on the sides 
but don't fire a shot.

To get the secret treasure leave the elevator, go straight through the door and turn 
left, then turn right into the room
with one wall panel on the right. Push it.

