The bodies laying before you are just the beginning.  After busting in the door, you sunk two shells into thier skulls.  Now a door to the right beckons you.  Your mission: Prevent the Sea Wolf U-Boat from getting underway by eliminating its captain and crew.  Any other Nazis that you neutralize will be considered an added bonus.  This is the Fźhrer's newest prize.  Rumor has it that the submarine is capable of launching missles from underwater that are undetectable.  When Hitler's scientist develop the atom bomb, it could be deployed from right off the coast of England or even the United States!  You can see how important it is to that Allies that you take out this heavily guarded juggernaut.

After killing the guards and crew of the Sea Wolf, you will emerge at Hitler's secret sub-pen.  Shoot your way to the top and destroy his infernal protectors.  You may even get to take aim at Adolf himself (that is, providing it isn't one of his infuriating clones).  If you eliminate the Sea Wolf and Hitler, Red Riding Hood will consider your mission a resounding success!



The Scourge of The Earth keeps increasing the ranks of his deadly Third Reich.  Just as has been with every leader in history, individuals with special abilities flock to the sides of those that promise wealth and power.  Hitlers geneticists have cloned these individuals and given some of them a special place in his army.  


Ę																														OTTO GIFTMACHER: The head honcho of the
																																uniformed officers.  His Large barrel
																																weapon sprays bullets faster than you can
																																shake a duetschmark.  Watch out for this 
																																sneaky devil!






BARNACLE WILHELM: The captain of theĘ
Sea Wolf is quick and deadly.  Be
careful not to get in the way of his
two-fisted attack.  This dedicated 
German soldier of the Third Reich
wants to see the annihilation
of the Allies and their domination of
the oceans.

																																The Red Mass:  Who the heck?!













Conserve your ammo. You just never know how many bullets its going to take to fell Barnacle Wilhelm; and when the bullets run out things are going to really get hard.  Hitlers men weren't expecting an attack on this top secret machine of war so food and first-aid kits are going to be rare and hidden in out of the way places.

Special thanks for the creation of this scenario goes to: Laz Rojas (for advice and graphic assistance), Mark (playtesting and morale support) and my Wife (toleration and moral support)