==========================
Arielus's Spear of Destiny
==========================

README.TXT


Hello there. I'm Norberto Ariel Castañares, and I'm writing this little text in my 
house, in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The file you're reading, along with three other 
files, form what I've come to call 'Arielus's Spear of Destiny', a 'Spear of Destiny' 
modification. This same title was first uploaded to the Internet during the early 
months of 2002, but in different conditions. At that time, a file named 'arielus.zip' 
was made available for download, containing exactly these files:

Name             Size         Date
AUDIOHED.SOD     2 KB         January 5th, 1993
AUDIOT.SOD       321 KB       January 5th, 1993
GAMEMAPS.SOD     135 KB       May 1st, 1998
MAPHEAD.SOD      1 KB         May 1st, 1998
Spear.exe        111 KB       January 27th, 1998
VGADICT.SOD      1 KB         January 5th, 1993
VGAGRAPH.SOD     926 KB       January 5th, 1993
VGAHEAD.SOD      1 KB         January 5th, 1993
VSWAP.SOD        1,579 KB     May 1st, 1998

At the moment of this writing, I do not know whether 'Arielus's Spear of Destiny' 
was uploaded in a different way at that time, and I do not know whether it can now 
be found in a different way either. I do not even know whether the same 'arielus.zip' 
I've described above can still be downloaded nowadays. Fact is, I've decided to release 
a definite version of this 'Spear of Destiny' mod, with only the files I've modified 
in the original 'Spear of Destiny', and with this little text as well. I believe 
this is the way I should have done things in the first place.

After I've finished writing this, 'Arielus's Spear of Destiny' will start being available 
for download inside a file called 'NACSOD.ZIP', which will contain exactly these 
files:

Name             Size         Date
GAMEMAPS.SOD     135 KB       May 1st, 1998
MAPHEAD.SOD      1 KB         May 1st, 1998
README.TXT       6 KB         July 5th, 2004
VSWAP.SOD        1,579 KB     May 1st, 1998

Contrary to 'arielus.zip', 'NACSOD.ZIP' will not contain all the files needed to 
play the mod. Given this, several files from the original registered version of 'Spear 
of Destiny' will have to be placed in the same directory as the ones showed immediately 
above in order to play this title. I've tried both the 1.0 and the 1.4 versions, 
and 'Arielus's Spear of Destiny' has always worked perfectly. Last time I did this, 
I made copies of the two mentioned versions in two different directories, and simply 
copied all the files showed immediately above inside those two directories. The original 
'GAMEMAPS.SOD', 'MAPHEAD.SOD' and 'VSWAP.SOD' files of both versions were overwritten, 
and 'README.TXT' ended up in both directories, too. After that, I made the EXE file 
run and this mod was ready to be played; first in one directory, and then in the 
other.

Alright, what can I say about the mod itself? Let's see... I started it in 1995 or 
in 1996, I don't really recall the exact year. I finished it off the very same day 
I turned 16 years old, in 1998. I remember that a little while after I had touched 
the last things and had decided the mod was completely finished, the first visits 
showed up. By that time, I had already shut down my computer and was impatiently 
waiting for some more gifs! Heh... I had already been given some, I remember, but 
who has enough when it comes to receiving birthday presents? I never do!

'Arielus's Spear of Destiny' features 21 maps that I made entirely from scratch. 
A great many graphics are a hundred percent mine, several are modified versions of 
other people's work, and a few are unmodified versions of other people's work, too. 
This is what this mod offers. Nowadays, more than six years after its completion, 
I'm still able to get a lot of fun with it. 'NACSOD.ZIP' hasn't been released at 
the moment of this writing, but it surely has at the moment you're reading this. 
I really hope you, wherever you are and whenever you're reading this, can have some 
fun with 'Arielus's Spear of Destiny' too.

Should you be interested, these are other mods I've released so far:

'Arielus's Wolfenstein 3-D'
'Arielus's Xmas Wolfenstein 3-D'
'The Golden Episodes'

Also, these are the ones in which I've taken part so far:

'Alliance of Powers'
'Beyond Mutantstein Special Edition'
'Map Making Mania Melée'

Since I don't know exactly where and in which conditions the mentioned titles will 
be at the moment you read this, it will be up to you to find them if you're interested 
in doing so. If that's the case, I wish you the best of lucks. I trust you won't 
have any major difficulties. There are some other titles for which I've done beta 
testing tasks, but I don't think that's enough merit to name them here.

So well, I think that's it. If you feel like sending me an e-mail, please hesitate 
not and do so. I will be glad to read whatever you have to say. These are the accounts 
I currently have:

arielus1982( (at) )argentina.com
arielus1982( (at) )hotmail.com
arielus1982( (at) )yahoo.com.ar

Note the brackets surrounding the ' (at) ' symbols. I stated my accounts the way I did 
as a way of protecting them against those programs designed to search for e-mail 
addresses to be sent spam to. Make sure you don't include any bracket if you write 
to me, otherwise I won't receive any message. And, if you include no bracket and 
all the same I don't get any message, then it's because I no longer use the account 
you sent the message to. If that's the case, it will be up to you to find a way to 
contact me if you're still interested in doing so. Again, I wish you the best of 
lucks.

Gotta go now. I've been to three birthday parties in only a couple of days, and I've 
eaten way too much. No dinner for me today, thanks. I think I'm going to get a cup 
of Peters peppermint liqueur and that will be all...


Norberto Ariel Castañares,

Monday July 5th, 2004.
Buenos Aires, Argentina.