  				  ALL THIS & WOLF 3D
           				   MANUAL

SPECS

This read-me works best with "Wordpad". If you open it up in WinWord, it's filled 
with words it don't get, so please... Open it here... :-)

INTRODUCING

This is "All This & Wolf 3D", created by me, Thomas Weiling, and EXE compiled by 
Chris Chokan. It started to boil when Chris sent me a fun new EXE in June, July or 
August 2005. In November I really began to work on it, and on November 25, 2005 the 
first level was done. It was finished during the end of January 2007. I made all 
maps myself using MapEdit v8.5, except for level 69, made by Chris. For the coding, 
he used Watcom and Borland. Originally, it used the 4GW-stuff.

It is the first Wolfenstein 3D mod release which has more than 60 levels (Correct 
me if I’m wrong).


CODING CHANGES INCLUDE:

- Ten more maps
- More static objects allowed
- More guards allowed
- Seamless levels
- And other hex editing...


WHY ARE THERE TWO EXEs, AND WHICH ONE SHOULD I USE?

Normally, both exes should work the same on most computers, but here's the list of 
changes in ATAW1.EXE:

- Ripper's No Scalers tutorial was added
- Handles the Windows scancodes better (LShift, Arrow Keys)
- Uses one sound table in far memory instead of two in near memory
- The VBLs are set to 1 to avoid flashing gray lines on really fast monitors
- Spotvis gets cleared every 4 tics instead of every 8 tics
- Removed the DONOTHING (space bar) sound

ATAW1.EXE is more of an upgraded version for Windows, and also gives you a lot more 
free memory to work with.
ATAW2.EXE is closer to the oldschool Dos version, and should run smoother (with a 
better FPS rate) in that environment.

So it's really up to you. I mainly use ATAW1.EXE in Windows XP and ATAW2.EXE in DosBox.

If you run into any memory or performance issues on one exe, you might get better 
luck out of using the other one.

If you notice any bugs, feel free to send them to choksta (at) hotmail.com. I'd enjoy 
hearing about them.
Note: One I'm aware of is the occasional vertical line/gaps on walls bug, the latter 
also being present in the original wolf3d.


HEY, I LIKE TO SAVE AT THE START OF EVERY LEVEL!

Hey, me too! I remember having to use like 5 separate saved games folders in addons 
like Schabbs2000 for that.
Alternatively, ATAW automatically saves your stats after every level, so you can 
have up to 70 checkpoints per game!

How does it work? After you load a saved game, just press F1 if you want to resume 
the game from an earlier level.



STORY

1945.

Rumour has it, that mystic stuff is going on in a distant castle in Germany. The 
locals in the area say that it has been taken over by the Nazis. But what would the 
Nazis use an old castle for? 

Mystic experiments have been going on in the laboratory areas... More than a million 
mutants are ready to expand the Nazi territory. Therefore, the leader Hitler is planning 
to invade USA in about a couple of weeks, so the OSA must set their best spy into 
this case. B.J. Blazkowicz it is, 33 fearless years old and the direct opposite of 
a rookie.

You must find Hitler, and kill him! That is your mission. There are 70 floors in 
this big castle, so you must be strong and take a lot of consequences here. 

LEVEL GUIDE

This castle is split up in several units; all of them have a different objective. 


LEVELS 1-10: LOWER CASTLE.

These first ten levels is a compilation of tunnels, bunkers and quarters. You’ll 
be set at the fortress to a big castle entrance. The second level is a tunnel, and 
there are more specific levels as long as you get up the unit. It all fades out in 
level 9, a big, slimy, mulch-filled maze, and then level 10, which houses the boss 
of this unit, the veteran Hans Grosse.

LEVELS 11-20: LOWER MANSION.

As you defeat Hans Grosse, you’ll come to this unit. It’s kind of like the first 
unit with all the variations. Level 11 is the officers’ lounge, which has only officers 
and dogs guarding it. Level 12 is a slimy passage, and then from level 13 and up 
it’s a mansion. Housing a lot of guards, and is mainly just a lot of barracks. Level 
16 though, is a prison level, which has only the Wehrmacht guards, and level 20 has 
this unit’s boss. It’s General Fettgesicht, guarded up by many guards in a cavy complex. 
How Episode 6 is that?!

LEVELS 21-30: LOWER SECURITY.

As the name says, this is the lower security unit, therefore a lot of guards. Although 
the action doesn’t start until level 23, which is a compounded “doghouse” and bunker. 
Level 21 is an older bunker unit, and hasn’t got as many guards as the rest of the 
unit. Level 30 is the final level here which houses Otto von Giftmacher as a guard. 
His big mansion is filled with a little too many guards, but as he’s known for there’s 
a lotta officers in there.

LEVELS 31-40: THE LABORATORIES.

These ten levels are completely different from the others. No bunkers here. Here, 
you will infiltrate Dr. Schabbs’ huge laboratory unit, with has almost only mutants 
as guards. The first level is an entrance, which you will enter quite fast. The labs 
are big and filled with creepy experiments, and there are some few guards, mainly 
officers, besides the mutants. The next level is a lab-cellar, and then you will 
get to the straight labs. They're extremely dangerous and very difficult. Level 38 
is a waste lair, which is a big nuclear deposit hidden in realms of mutants and steel 
panels. Level 39 is the final lab, before you will reach Schabbs combined experimental 
area, nuclear barracks and laboratory, which is known as his "House of Death".

LEVELS 41-50: UPPER CASTLE.

After you killed Schabbs you come to the second part of the castle. It’s in similar 
style to the very first unit, except that it’s more guarded and the levels are bigger. 
It takes some time to get through most of the levels. Levels 45-47 is said to have 
“crazy mutants”, meaning they killed all the other guards and took over the regency. 
It all ends out in level 50, Trans Grosse’s office, where he resides guarded up. 
I bet he’s mad about what you did to his brother in the first castle unit…

LEVELS 51-60: UPPER MANSION.

These ten levels are too similar to the first unit. This has almost the same thing. 
It’s a mansion. Even though that there’s more guards here and that the levels vary 
in style. All of the levels are difficult to come through. Like the first unit, this 
also mouths out in a big slimy portal. Even though this is not the main castle, level 
59 is a castle level, but in style to the mansions. Level 60 houses the second-final 
boss, Gretel Grosse. She’s more pissed than Trans, now that he’s dead too…

LEVELS 61-70: UPPER SECURITY.

You've finally approached the last part of the castle. There isn't much difference 
from the last twenty talking amount of guards, but they've found better hideouts. 
You're often surrounding by them, and it's no surprise. The leader of all this, Adolf 
Hitler, is on the last floor waiting for you. Many of these levels are similar to 
those in the lower security unit, until you arrive to level 68. Nobody knows what 
really houses in this level, but it’s rumoured to be haunted. It takes time to get 
through that place, and it’ll be hard to get a rest here. Level 69 is a proponent, 
as it’s completely unknown what’s here. The level doesn’t exist in your orders given, 
nor does it in the castle index. After that, you will go to floor 70, where the only 
given information tells you it's big, it's difficult and you'll die instantly if 
you haven't got the guts. Nobody's sure of Hitler really resides here, but instead 
he resides in a hidden cellar. It's only a rumour though...


NOTES

- It doesn’t matter if you read this after or before you’ve finished the game. You 
might notice that levels 2-7 and 16 aren’t as similar to my style of mapping as the 
other ones. That’s because they were made in the first period of ATAW (November 2005-January 
2006), and since level 8 my skills grew. I also had a big change of skills in April, 
May and June 2006 as I played some of the other mappers than Gary and BJ Rowan’s 
games. In the final period (October-December 2006) I got very inspired by WSJ and 
ack, I don’t know if you notice it.

- I know some of you noticed the first release of ATAW, on May 18 2006. Please, do 
not judge from there, and just play this. Perhaps it’s the same maps and all that, 
but this is completely different. I regretted the release sooner on, when I suddenly 
continued working on it in June. It’s now deleted from the news and the server and 
is forgotten except in your minds! Please refer to the demo from April 14, which 
is good, and to me stands as a “promotional beta-version”.


SO, WHY DIDN'T YOU FOLLOW THE NEW MODDING STYLE?

Why am I making games which use the original base (Nazi Operation for example)? - 
I really like it. Classic Wolf has always been my business. And it has been a lotta 
fun being in Wolfenstein's modding world for almost three years. When I joined DieHard 
Wolfers Forum in 2004, I was the biggest "noob" of them all... I think. I wish I'd 
been in Wolf Community when it started all back in 1998 or something... I like surfing 
the Dome Archives through to see all the old, good working, when exploding oil drums 
was phenomenal, when Totengraeber was the best and all the good old pioneers tried 
their way through. Classic Wolf was also good back then and "mods" in particular. 
With changed graphics, sounds and such... This expired me to Abandon and other mods.


I love to play amazing games such as Orb of Dilaaria, Spear Resurrection, Double 
Trouble, and Operation Todpfad and of course End of Destiny, but I don't mod those, 
because I’m bad at this. All that nice coding doesn't get to me at all. Though, I 
found mapping for these very interesting, and I'd love to try it out once. Perhaps 
that's possible nowadays, now the End of Destiny-source is out. :-)


OTHER MODS BY ME

Abandon "v0", September-October 2004 (Never Finished)		|
Abandon, September-November 2004 (Still remains unfixed)		|
Operation: Achtliebe, November-December 2004 (Never finished)	|
Project: Wolfgeist, December 2004-February 2005 (Failed)		|	"POSSUM TROT" PERIOD

Schabbs 7000, February 2005 [Released May 2006] (Never Finished)	|
Abandon 2: Purgatory! February-March 2005 (Failed)			|
Secrets of Offenbach, February-July, 2005 (Failed)			|
	
If you can read this, you are a moron! Haha! Anyway, mail to thomasweiling (at) hotmail.com 
if you read this, and you'll get a gift! 
Very Avant-Garde, huh? ;-)


Nazi Operation, July-December 2005					|	        PRESENT PERIOD					

So actually, in my own mind, I’ve only released one good game, "Nazi Operation". 
In the future it'll be the only mod I'll list, also because in my first and baddest 
Wolf-period I was known as "Possum Trot". Please bear with me on that one, okay... 
There's another game I like myself though. The game "Quest for the General" didn’t 
go official, because I’m tired of all those unfinished games of mine around. Some 
of the maps have been used in a mapping contest and reconverted to this game. It's 
not all of them, though. Only a couple of them. If you're interested getting it, 
send me a mail and I'll link it. Or find it in some DHW-thread. I often yap to much 
about games and stuff which I really should keep secret. But still, my entire first 
mods still suck, and remain unreleased in the newbie modding wasteland, but what 
the heck, as MCS said once, we were all newbies.

Regarding my mods, they can be found at the Wolfenstein 3D Dome, which has been my 
“second home” for more than three years now.


CONTACT

Feel free to drop a comment or two about the game, and if you have questions, you 
can mail me at thomasweiling (at) hotmail.com.


CREDITS

Chris Chokan - Coding, level 69 (Made especially for this game)
Dean Horton - Beta testing
Brian Lowe - Distribution
Majik Monkee - Shower sprite (Edited by Me)
Ringman - Checkerboard graphic, stained glass graphic

… And of course id Software and the MapEdit-team for their great games and utilities. 
Keep on wolfing!