 
 --      --  --------     --------       -       --   --  -------  --------
 ----    --     --        -             - -      - - - -  -        -
 --  --  --     --        -            -   -     -  -  -  -------  --------
 --    ----     --        -   ----    -_____-    -     -  -               -
 --      --     --        -      -   -       -   -     -  -               -
 --      --     --        --------  -         -  -     -  -------  --------

Presents.....

Wolfenstein: Total Chaos Part 1

------------------------
Description:

Other titles: Scstein (early title), WolfChaos
Release Date: 24th December, 2017
Creator: TriplaK
Prequel: Spear of Destiny (the original), Wolfenstein 3D
Engine/port: Wolf4SDL
Project Originally started: July 2010
Project Re-started: June 20th, 2013
------------------------

Summary:

Classic Wolf3D mod with less code changes and more focus on the original feel of 
the game, with a brand new (although certainly not my best) story.


How to install/play:

- Create a folder anywhere on your Hard Disk, with any name ("Wolfenstein Total Chaos" 
for an example)
- Copy all the content of the wolfchaos.rar file to your newly created folder.
- Start game with Wolf4SDL.exe

------------------------------------------
...................
Read This!
...................
------------------------------------------


1. The Story so far

The Story takes place after the end of the Original Wolfenstein 3D. After a tough 
battle with the Führer himself, BJ goes back up to the surface. Here, An Allied helicopter 
has already landed to thake him back to the O.S.A. HQ.
The O.S.A. informs BJ about the current situation: Despite severly weakening the 
Nazi forces with the Death of Hitler, some of them are still at large, and one such 
Force even managed to steal the Spear of Destiny once again,
and took to a previously unknown secret base located in Austria. This base is known 
for being heavily guarded and thus no succesful attempt was made for infiltrating 
it. BJ howerer still agrees to make an attempt to sneak into
that base, and get the Spear back.

Things are going according to the plan at first, but then a bunch of Nazi soldiers 
caught BJ, and instead of killing him they taken him to custody and inprisoned to 
a relatively nearby prison in the underground.

Though simply imprisoning BJ is something the Nazis should not count on.....

Episode 1: Great Escape

BJ once again manages to break out from a Nazi prison, which turns out to be connected 
to a small underground Headquarters.
You must make your way up to the surface, and locate the Base of Operations where 
the Spear of Destiny are held.
You may also encounter remains of other smaller fortresses, as well as a Detention 
Camp lead by the dreaded Submarine Willy.

Episode 2: Forrest Trouble

After raiding an Underground lab, BJ continues his way to a Forrest which is heavily 
infested by the wicked experiments of the
Nazis: Mutant animals. Eventually, the Forrest wil lead to an abandoned fortress 
once used by the Third Reich. 
This is where the location of the Base should be.

Episode 3: Cave

The Forrest eventually leads to a Cave, which is believed to be a mining part of 
the Abandoned Fortress.
Be careful, it might be guarded by both the Nazis and the Mutants.

Episode 4: Old Fortress

The Fortress has been abandoned long ago, and it's current state resembles more like 
an Egypt temple than any other thing.
You must survive your path trough the Fortress. (as it is heavily infested with mutant 
animals) There should be a briefing
room where you can find the exact location of the Base.

Episode 5: Going in

BJ found a map in the Fortress that has the location of the Base. Turns out that 
it's only just a few miles away.
You must fight your way out of the Fortress and into the Base of Operations.

Episode 6: End of Story

After many tough battles, BJ finally arrives at the Base. The Base is heavily defended 
by the remains of the Nazi forces,
so be careful for any traps or Counter attacks. Take down the Admiral, Locate the 
Spear of Destiny, and your job here is done!
Or is it.....

2. Features

- 20 levels per Part (3 Parts were planned in total) divided in 2 episodes
- New ceiling colours
- A new weapon
- 4 keys
- Minor code changes
- New Bosses
- New Musics and Sounds

3. Enemies

- 1: SS Guard

Standard SS Nazi infantry equiped with a Walther P99, they should not cause any problems, 
unless they're crowded in big numbers.

- 2: Wehrmacht Machineguner

Machine gun wielding Guard with Bulletproof west. Much more tougher than normal Guards, 
and can be deadly in numbers. Take 'em out
with caution!

- 3: Officer

Nazi officers are well-trained individuals. They can fire and run faster than normal 
guards, therefore poses a bigger threat when crowded.

- 4: Mutant dogs

Not exactly mutant, but extremly dangerous to anyone because of the experiments the 
Nazis did to them. They can often be found crowded in the forrest and
abandoned areas.

- 5: Mutant Scorpion

The Nazi's wicked experiments was lead to some horrific results: oversized Scorpions 
with spines that they can shoot at you! So watch out!

- 6: Super Mutant Scorpion

Even deadlier foes than the "regular" ones. They runs, shoots faster, and they can 
even burrow into the Underground anywhere, so they can cath you off-guard!


4. Bosses

!---Appears in all 3 parts---!

- 1: Chainguner

Resembles the Wehrmacht guards, with the difference being a chaingun and different 
colored clothes. An easy mini-boss overall.

- 2: Agents

You'll first meet them in Episode 1 Level 4. One such agent holds the key for the 
exit door that leads to the forrest. As you progress, you may encounter
more agents through your journey. The use a chaingun and a rocket launcher.

!---Appears in part 1---!

- 3: Submarine Willy

The first major threat you encounter. He's a leader of a small camp found near the 
forrest. To progress, you must kill him. Despite Being the psyhotic he is,
he can shoot pretty well with his chaingun and machinegun.

- 4: Super Soldier

Specially trained soldier who secures the gate between the lab and the forrest. Take 
him down to make your way back to the forrest!
Wields two chainguns.

- 5: Loper

Another mutant creature brought by the experiments. He can throw you electric shocks, 
which can drain your health very quickly! You need to kill him in
order to continue your way to the Cave.

!---Appears in part 2---!

- 6: Robot

Metalic guardian with a special gun that shoots Lighting bolts. Easy to avoid his 
shoots, but takes a while to tear it apart. Will appear as mini-boss
during the rest of Episode 3.

- 7: Major Hans "The Axe"

A tough soldier with a Skull-like mask guarding the passages of the Cave. Wields 
two Chainguns and his boots makes a loud noise everytime he takes a step.

- 8: Undead Soldier

Last attempts of the Nazi experiments. Guards the main halls of the Fortress, along 
with several troops. Wields a three-bareled chaingun.

- 9: Dr. Felischaker

A Mad Nazi scientist, responsible for most of the experiments. He is trapped in a 
bunker inside the Fortress, and only he has the key
for the briefing room that has the map with the Base's location. He has a robotic 
suit (indentical to Hitler's) and uses chainguns for
weapons.

!---Appears in part 3---!

- 10: Hans Grosse

One of the Admiral's right hand man, a familiar face from the past. Hans somehow 
managed to survive the fight between you and him back
at Castle Wolfenstein.....make sure to kill him off for real this time! As always, 
he uses dual chainguns.

- 11: Karl "The One-eyed"

Another of the Admiral's goons, this man has one of his eyes missing. Despite that, 
he can use his rocket launcher just fine so watch
out when confronting him. He also has a Considerable number of henchmens guarding 
him.

- 12: The Admiral

The man himself responsible for the steal of the Spear, he's only known under the 
name Admiral. The key for the Spear's storage room
is in his pockets. His intentions with the Spear is to use it's powers to make the 
weakened Nazi army once again strong, and tougher
as ever. You must make absolutely sure that these intentions only remains to be dreams 
of a mad man. Take him out and get the Spear
back!

- 13: Angel of Death

As the last time, taking the spear doesn't ends just ends without a Tough final battle. 
The Admiral, as a last resort weapon, has 
resurrected the Angel of Death to waste anyone who gets the Spear. The Angel of Death 
is the last thing between you and victory!

5. Weapons and items

Just like in the original Wolfenstein 3D, there are various items through the game. 
But as for the weapons, there's a new addition for your
arsenal.

- 1. Knife

When you run out of ammo, the knife is still there as a last resort. Can be life 
saving at times, but not as useful in critical situations.

- 2. Walther pistol

Standard-issue pistol used by the Nazi soldiers. Has a low rate of fire, and is not 
recommended when you're facing a pack of enemies.

- 3. M1918 BAR

The Nazis stole these Machine guns from the U.S. Army forces. Better rate of fire 
makes this weapons almost the strongest one in the
arsenal.

- 4. Silenced Rifle

Found in many places in your journey, these weapons has the firepower and rate of 
fire of a pistol, but also has a silencer which makes it
a good stealth weapon when the enemy numbers are very high and you don't want to 
be spoted.

- 5. Rotary Chaingun

The most powerfull weapon of the bunch. Can take packs of enemies down with no problem. 
Just have one of your eyes look at the Ammo
counter as it can eat up a lot of rounds in a matter of seconds.

5.1 Ammo Types

- Ammo clip

This cartridge contains 8 9mm rounds. Some enemies leaves used clips when killed, 
these ones contains only 4 rounds.

- Ammo box

This box contains 25 9mm rounds.

5.2 Healing items

Dog food restores 4% to your health.
Chicken meal restores 10% to your health.
First aid kit restores 25% to your health.
Pool of blood restores 1% to your health if you're under 10%.

5.3 Keys

Wolfenstein: Total Chaos contains 4 keys in total: the regular gold and blue keys, 
with the brown and silver keys.

5.4 Bonus items

Cross gives you 100 points.
Chalice gives you 500 points.
Jewel chest gives you 1000 points.
Crown gives you 5000 points.

Backpack also counts as treasure item, and while it fully restores your health to 
100%, you'll also get 25 rounds for the weapons.

6. Tools i've used to make this mod

Want to know what tools i'm used to create this mod? Here it is:
- Chaos Edit V1.25 and V1.27 - Editing maps, graphics, sounds
- Dev-Cpp - Editing the source code
- Notepad - Creating the .txt files
- MS Paint - Editing some graphics
- Wolf Data Compiler (WDC) - Replacing AdLib sounds and musics



7. Conclusion and Credits

If you have any problems with the mod (not working, found a bug) feel free to drop 
an E-mail to me: BKaroly1222aa (at) gmail.com

Some of these maps might be similar from my earlier mods. The Reason for this is 
that those few maps we're originally meant to be in this
mod and so i've added them in their original form.

Listing all the credits would take up a lot of space, so for a full, detailed credits, 
see credits.txt!

This mod is my gift for the holidays, so i hope you will like it and enjoy playing 
it! Merry Christmas!