=========================
Arielus's Wolfenstein 3-D
=========================

README.TXT


Hello there. I'm Norberto Ariel Castañares, and I'm writing this little text in my 
house, in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The file you're reading, along with two other 
files, form what I've come to call 'Arielus's Wolfenstein 3-D', a 'Wolfenstein 3-D' 
modification. This same title was first uploaded to the Internet during the early 
months of 2002, but in different conditions. At that time, a file named 'arieluswlf.zip' 
was made available for download, containing exactly these files:

Name                                                      Size         Date
Audiohed.WL6                                              2 KB         May 4th, 1995

Audiot.WL6                                                310 KB       May 4th, 1995

Gamemaps.WL6                                              324 KB       September 
21st, 1998
Maphead.WL6                                               1 KB         September 
21st, 1998
Please, Read Me Before Playing For The First Time.TXT     2 KB         March 10th, 
2002
Vgadict.WL6                                               1 KB         May 4th, 1995

Vgagraph.WL6                                              296 KB       May 4th, 1995

Vgahead.WL6                                               1 KB         May 4th, 1995

Vswap.WL6                                                 1,510 KB     May 4th, 1995

Wolf3D.EXE                                                97 KB        December 1st, 
1996

At the moment of this writing, I do not know whether 'Arielus's Wolfenstein 3-D' 
was uploaded in a different way at that time, and I do not know whether it can now 
be found in a different way either. I do not even know whether the same 'arieluswlf.zip' 
I've described above can still be downloaded nowadays. Fact is, I've decided to release 
a definite version of this 'Wolfenstein 3-D' mod, with only the files I've modified 
in the original 'Wolfenstein 3-D', and with this little text as well. I believe this 
is the way I should have done things in the first place.

After I've finished writing this, 'Arielus's Wolfenstein 3-D' will start being available 
for download inside a file called 'NACW3D.ZIP', which will contain exactly these 
files:

Name             Size         Date
GAMEMAPS.WL6     324 KB       September 21st, 1998
MAPHEAD.WL6      1 KB         September 21st, 1998
README.TXT       6 KB         July 5th, 2004

Contrary to 'arieluswlf.zip', 'NACW3D.ZIP' will not contain all the files needed 
to play the mod. Given this, several files from the original registered version of 
'Wolfenstein 3-D' will have to be placed in the same directory as the ones showed 
immediately above in order to play this title. I've tried the Apogee's 1.1, the Activision's 
1.4, the Apogee's 1.4 and the GT Interactive's 1.4 versions, and 'Arielus's Wolfenstein 
3-D' has always worked perfectly. Last time I did this, I made copies of the four 
mentioned versions in four different directories, and simply copied all the files 
showed immediately above inside those four directories. The original 'GAMEMAPS.WL6' 
and 'MAPHEAD.WL6' files of the four versions were overwritten, and 'README.TXT' ended 
up in the four directories, too. After that, I made the EXE file run and this mod 
was ready to be played; first in the first directory, then in the second, then in 
the third, and finally in the fourth.

Alright, what can I say about the mod itself? Let's see... I started it in 1995 or 
in 1996, I don't really recall the exact year. I finished it off when spring was 
just beginning in Argentina, in 1998. I was 16 years old back then.

'Arielus's Wolfenstein 3-D' features 60 maps that I made entirely from scratch. This 
is what this mod offers. Nowadays, more than six years after its completion, I'm 
still able to get a lot of fun with it. 'NACW3D.ZIP' hasn't been released at the 
moment of this writing, but it surely has at the moment you're reading this. I really 
hope you, wherever you are and whenever you're reading this, can have some fun with 
'Arielus's Wolfenstein 3-D' too.

Should you be interested, these are other mods I've released so far:

'Arielus's Spear of Destiny'
'Arielus's Xmas Wolfenstein 3-D'
'The Golden Episodes'

Also, these are the ones in which I've taken part so far:

'Alliance of Powers'
'Beyond Mutantstein Special Edition'
'Map Making Mania Melée'

Since I don't know exactly where and in which conditions the mentioned titles will 
be at the moment you read this, it will be up to you to find them if you're interested 
in doing so. If that's the case, I wish you the best of lucks. I trust you won't 
have any major difficulties. There are some other titles for which I've done beta 
testing tasks, but I don't think that's enough merit to name them here.

So well, I think that's it. If you feel like sending me an e-mail, please hesitate 
not and do so. I will be glad to read whatever you have to say. These are the accounts 
I currently have:

arielus1982( (at) )argentina.com
arielus1982( (at) )hotmail.com
arielus1982( (at) )yahoo.com.ar

Note the brackets surrounding the ' (at) ' symbols. I stated my accounts the way I did 
as a way of protecting them against those programs designed to search for e-mail 
addresses to be sent spam to. Make sure you don't include any bracket if you write 
to me, otherwise I won't receive any message. And, if you include no bracket and 
all the same I don't get any message, then it's because I no longer use the account 
you sent the message to. If that's the case, it will be up to you to find a way to 
contact me if you're still interested in doing so. Again, I wish you the best of 
lucks.

Gotta go now. I've just finished a cup of Peters peppermint liqueur, and I think 
I'm going to get another...


Norberto Ariel Castañares,

Monday July 5th, 2004.
Buenos Aires, Argentina.