POKESTEIN 3D - A Wolfenstein 3D modification.
AUTHOR: Cliff AKA Lizardcommando
EMAIL: lilzergling (at) hotmail.com 

WEBSITE: http://www.geocities.com/pokesteinredux/main.html

Thank you for downloading my first Wolf3D mod. Keep in mind that
this is just a 1 episode demo.

-TABLE OF CONTENTS-

-1. Story
-2. Features
-3. How to play Pokestein 3D
-4. Notes for playing Pokestein 3D
-5. Known bugs...
-6. Coming Attractions!
-7. Conclusion

1. STORY 
(a better and more simplified version of the story can be found on my site)

      You are Lizardcommando, an ex-Exterminator (your government's hired killer) 
who
is called into action to infiltrate the gigantic jungle fortress, Castle Pokestein. 

Months earlier, the Poke-Army, lead by Ash Ketchum and Pikachu, invaded your home 
city.
They destroyed your home and killed off your friends and family. You vow to seek 
revenge. 
Later, the General of the LSMC (Lizard States Marine Corp.) asks you to take part 
in a 
deadly infiltration mission. You are to infiltrate the gigantic jungle fortress, 
Castle 
Pokestein, via the underwater caverns, sneak in to the main areas via the underground 

warehouse's freight elevator and then find and eliminate the two evil dictators before 

they can destroy the world. Each episode is comprised of each of the castle's areas. 


EPISODE 1.
Detention Center

This is where you start off. The elevator that you snuck in while in the underground 

warehouse leads into the fortress's detention center. It's filled with many prison 
cells.
The boss you encounter is Warden Polywhirl. He's armed with dual miniguns so watch 
out!
Rumors have it that there is a genetics lab is hidden underneath the Detention Center...

Can you find it?

2. FEATURES

     Aside from new leveles, this mod will have new enemy replacements. Meaning most 
of the
sounds will be changed. Textures will be replaced too. That's about it... for now...


3. HOW TO PLAY POKESTEIN 3D

    Ok, so you've downloaded the demo. Now what you ask? Before you get started, 
keep in
mind that:

1. This can only be played in DOS (meaning you can't play this on Windows XP) or...

2. Download a Wolfenstein 3D source port. 
(There are only two source ports that I am aware of, WolfGL and NewWolf) Unfortunately,

I do not know if you are able to play mods using the source ports... so if option 
doesn't
work, stick with option 1.

Now, if you are able to play Wolf3D or any other DOS program, then this isn't a problem 
for
you, so here's how to play my mod:

-Unzip into a new folder (Name it Pokestein3d)
-Click on Pokestein3d-demo.exe

4. NOTES FOR PLAYING POKESTEIN 3D

-This game is intended for mostly the average Wolf3D player. So just select BRING 
EM ON!

-If you want to explore each map before playing it (or are new at Wolfenstein 3D), 
select 
CAN I PLAY DADDY? or DON'T HURT ME on the difficulty screen. Each map (aside from 
Map1) 
will have either little or no enemies in it. 

-This is more of a side-note: The "Coduc", mentioned in the end text, is just a parody

(and homage) to Metal Gear Solid. It will be featured in an upcoming Flash movie 
(more on
that in COMING ATTRACTIONS!)

5. KNOWN BUGS

     Yes, believe it or not, there is a bug...

-Selecting Episode2-Episode6 will result in playing the secret level for Episode 
1. I don't
know why, but even after beating the level, it will warp you back to that level. 
So just 
don't select those episodes, alright?

-If there are anymore bugs, email me at lilzergling (at) hotmail.com. 

6. COMING ATTRACTIONS!

     Here are some stuff (relating to this mod) that I will release later on:

-THE POKESTEIN 3D INTRO MOVIE:
     This is the movie that will show you how Lizardcommando sneaks into the main 
areas
of the fortress. It parodies the first area in Metal Gear Solid. It will be for Flash. 


-POKESTEIN 3D THEMED SKINS FOR DOOM: (not including the Pikaguard)
     Not likely, but I might do it just for the hell of it.

7. CONCLUSION

     I will eventually release a 3 Episode demo, and then the full thing. I honestly 
don't
know if this mod will ever get finished... But in the meantime, you can get some 
of my Doom
stuff, namely my mods ICD-LIZARD and LIZARDWAR, along with some Doom skins and a 
Deathmatch
wad. They are available at this site:

http://www.geocities.com/lizardcommando/enter.html

     I also have a site dedicated to my 3D art stuff and Flash Movies. (IMO the Flash 
stuff 
is better than the 3D Stuff) Check 'em out at this place:

http://www.geocities.com/lizardcgallery/artgallery.html

     Thanks again for downloading my Wolf3D mod. I hope you enjoy it! :)
