When I run the NEW exe what are the controls?? 

Tab-B Toggles the Weapon Bobble on/off
Tab-M Toggles the In-game Messages on/off 
Tab-O Toggles the Onscreen Timer on/off 
Tab-R Will show you the your Ratios in the game 
Tab-S Toggles the Shading on/off 
Tab-W Warp to Whatever Level? 
Tab-X Toggles the Crosshair on/off 

(-) & (+) keys will decrease/increase the screen size. 

What are the features of the new EXE?? 

As you can see from above, we have shading, ratio monitoring, weapon 
crosshair & bobbling, Ingame messages, Onscreen timer, along with Map 
Control of the Ceiling/Floor colours, Starry Sky, Moon Colour, rain/snow, 
and Par Times. 

The other options that are enabled in this EXE are: 

Teleport artifacts - touch them and be teleported somewhere.

Pushwalls will kill the player or enemy, if they are standing where the 
pushwall is sliding into. There can be a large number of pushwalls moving
at any one time, and some are controlled by switches. Additionally pushwalls
can be redirected mid flight.

You only have the Weapons that you have picked up. aka no bestweapon! 

Maximum Health is 100% 

Maximum Ammo is 100 rounds 

There is only 1 ammo type for all weapons. 

Small fixes to the AI controlling enemy movement. These may or may not 
change an enemies behaviour that will be noticable all the time. But be 
aware that it does change the directions that they scan - and if you play 
one of the original maps you may find that you may not meet alerted 
guards in the same place you always did. 

When you change weapons the weapons actually change. 

Each level will start as if it was the First Level in the game. That 
means there is no advantage to any weapons or ammo gained on the previous 
levels - or extra men for that matter. 

If you use a boss on your level (any boss) they will NOT end the game. 
They may drop an item, but they will not end the game.

Secret Elevator floor will NOT take anyone to a secret level because 
there are no secrets.

All (or at least most) bugs from the Code Crackers bug thread have been removed.