					           * QUEST FOR THE GENERAL *

					- a Wolfenstein 3D mod by Thomas Weiling (c) 2006
	
INFORMATION

Good morning/evening/night or whatever timezone you're in...

This is a mod I did for another breakoff for ATAW, but it seemed to make more success.

Its only inspiration is as Assassinate Hitler has the 20-levels, and then the big 
project Schabbs 2000.

I decided to make these maps more advanced than my other work... So I did my best 
work. A little messy, but still something I think is good.

EXE CHANGES:

- 20 Seamless levels, plus 3 secret levels accessed from various levels in the game


- Changed ceiling colours

- Changed music orders

- Ammobox from Spear of Destiny added

This work was done by Dean Horton.

STORY

It's 1951, and six years since the Second World War ended. People still remember 
it, but that chapter is finished.

General Fettgesicht's brother has lived in an underground tunnel since 1944 when 
the OSA had the information that he gassed 2000 jews for no reason. Also, he had 
tortured five american soldiers and raped Eva Braun which Hitler never had known.

He is a pure bandit, and has now comed to live up the nazi regime. USA has supported 
the West of Germany the last six years and the USSR took care of the east (Check 
map.bmp in the game folder for further info).
In the middle of all this, Fettgesicht has ressurected nazi facilities again. This 
must be closed down, defeating the headquarters located ten miles west of Hanover.


So you, BJ Blazkowicz are flown to Hanover and taken fifteen miles west to a castle 
by a brook, which seems to be a hard mission. You're going through this:

LEVEL 1: Entrance. This is the entrance to the castle. A mix of compounded bunkers 
and prison facilities, which isn't hard to get into.

LEVELS 2-6: South Bunker Unit. Here you will meet the new guy; the SA guard. Hard 
and very quiet. The levels are mostly plain bunkers, with a prison facility at level 
4.

LEVELS 7-12: Hideouts. Many, many guards here, and lots of treasure. Very hard, and 
fairly sized levels.

LEVELS 13-17: SA Headquarters. Fettgesicht had a love for SA's (!), which he hated 
Hitler for, during the Night of the Long Knives. Fettgesicht started a new secret 
SA force in 1936, and now it's out in public. They've appeared from the beginning, 
but this unit is their own. These guys are quiet, and their hq's are very clean and 
big. Not that there's much in them. Not so much treasure here, but lots of gunfights! 
Also, level 17 is a border level back to the old castle site where you came from 
back in level 12.

LEVELS 18-19: North Bunker Unit. Well-guarded bunkers, designed as a shield for Fettgesicht's 
palace at next level.

LEVEL  20: Fettgesicht's residence. Guarded very well by Officer's and SA's letting 
the Wehrmacht and SS guards doing the other work. This is a difficult place, but 
when you've defeated him, you've saved the world again.

LEVELS 21-23: Secret Levels. See if you can find 'em! Lots of treasure and other 
goodies here.

CREDITS:

ID Software - Wolf 3D
Dean Horton - Code